
Short Rating
Arom 8 (22%)
Taste: 10 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 8 (28%)
Overall: 8.9

Pours a dark brown almost black color with a quarter inch tan head.  The head settles out quickly leaving a thin layer of tan foam resting on top. No lacing.

The aroma is sweet with molasses, chocolate, coffee, and dark roasted malts.

The taste starts with a blend of sweet milk chocolate and dark roasted malts, then works into a light dark fruit flavor (maybe prunes?) with a hint of molasses and light coffee in the finish. The aftertaste is sweet with milk chocolate with a slight tartness.  I notice a touch of smoke in the flavor as this beer warms.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  A creamy, yet thin mouthfeel with a sticky sweetness.

Overall, a nice stout from Dogfish Head.  Nice dark flavors that are well balance and enjoyable.  A very drinkable stout that would be easy to enjoy on a cold evening. Try one!

Short Rating
Arom 8 (22%)
Taste: 8 (40%)
Look: 10 (10%)
Drinkability: 8 (28%)
Overall: 8.2

Good looking clear amber, medium side of color depth. Off-white full foam of average retention.

Great malt flavors than apricot, then slight floral and citrus. Super inviting.

Great balance of sweet, citrus, fruit, and bitterness. Really smooth and all elements work together. The mouth-feel is a bit over medium, but that's not a complaint. The alcohol is there, but adds to the balance and not a distraction.

I've seen this brewing company win an assortment of awards at the GABF over the years, but never had a chance to try any of their beers. Too bad for me, I'd rank this as one of the best DIPAs I've ever had. Got to get me more Dry Dock.

Pours black in color with hints of ruby red around the edges of the glass.  The pour produces a nice thick heavy half inch head that settles out leaving a thin layer of foam resting on top.  Thick heavy lacing sheets down the sides of the glass.

The aroma is sweet dark and roasted with a light bitterness that comes in late on the nose.  Milk Chocolate, brown sugar and roasted malts.

The taste is like a milk shake.  Sugar and sweet milk chocolate, malts, milky creamy taste and texture.  Some hints of roasted malts and a touch of bitterness on the finish that lasts into the aftertaste.

Medium to heavy body with medium carbonation.  Creamy and silky smooth on the palate.

Overall, a very nice milk stout.  Very creamy and milky.  This is about as close to chocolate milk as your going to get and still have an enjoyable beer!  Definitely worth a try if you enjoy this style.  Try one!

Pours a medium amber color with a huge frothy white head.  I had to wait a few minutes to finish the pour as the head was so lively.  Good retention on the head with some watery lacing.

The aroma is slightly sweet with fruit, banana, white grape and clove.  A very pleasant inviting aroma.

The taste is similar to the aroma.  Starts with a mildly sour, bitter fruit flavor that quickly melts into sweet malts.  Finishing with banana bread and clove flavors. The banana and cloves linger in the aftertaste.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  A creamy mouth feel with a zesty sharp dry finish on the palate.

New Glarus offers another great beer here with an enjoyable level of complexity and well balanced flavors.  A very drinkable beer that is fresh and inviting.  Give one a try!

Pours with a very slight chill haze.  Head is a half inch of white foam.  Retention is poor as the foam disappears quite quickly.  There is some wispy lacing.

Aroma is dank hops.  Light undertones of sweet bread malt.  Citrus and floral malts are dominated by pine.  As it sits in the glass, the aroma darts toward straight danknes overall hops are muted as individuals.  Almost vegetal.  Not my favorite aroma for an IPA.

Taste is dominated by hops, similar to the aroma.  Pine once again is the flavor grabber.  Citrus highlights with the finish bringing more pine and a solid bitterness.

Medium body or better that is almost thick for an IPA.  Light end of medium carbonation but spritzy on the edges of the tongue.

Dank and vegetal hops are not my cup of tea.  The larger body for an IPA feel didn't do it for me either.  The taste was better for me than the aroma.  I think it is a good IPA but not one that hits my niche.  Enjoy!

Totally black with a medium khaki foam head.

Definitely unique. A mix of charred malt, spice, chocolate, and low amount of pumpkin. The aroma is unusually appealing to me.

First impression is of a real fleshy pumpkin, cinnamon, in a rather ordinary stout. Dry and not any sweetness. A kind of velvety mouth feel.

Not a huge fan of pumkins, but mainly because of the over spicing. This beer isn't over spiced and had the most natural pumpkin flavor I have ever had. It's an interesting mix, and is an easy drinker. I would have again.

Golden without any imperfections, very clear. Some off-white foam head that leaves just a foam ring around the glass, soon after pouring.

Definately a nice citrusy blast. A tad astrigent is the only thing that takes it off the mark from perfection.

Bright tastes of grapefruit and other tropic's. Slight hop bite, though not over-done. Very much holds the malt in check. Not too thick as some powerful IPA's can be. The mouth-feel and carbonation are good. Nice after-taste, a lingering citrus.

Powerful ties to West Coast, and no doubt FFFs influence. That's all meant as a compliment. I understand why folks in Ohio chase after this brew from a small operation. If I had a "suggestion" on the taste profile, it would be to slightly dial down the bittterness just a little. But, don't misunderstand, this was a great beer.

Pours clear with a deep golden amber color.  The pour produces a frothy two finger head with good retention.  Spotty watery lacing.

The aroma is faint but a blend of yeast, clove, hints of banana, and a light caramel malt are detectable.

The taste is similar to the aroma with a blend of barnyard funky yeasts, light clove, hints of banana and some sweet caramel malts.  Flavors seem a bit muted and not as bold as most saisons that I have had.

Light to medium body with medium to high level of carbonation.  watery mouth feel with a dryness on the palate.

Overall, an enjoyable beer, but seems to be lacking in bold flavors that normally accompany this style.  The flavors are good, just muted, but still an enjoyable brew on a hot day.

No lace over translucent golden brown.
Aroma, slightest hint of spice.
Taste.  Bang!  Sweet in front of heat.  And that heat slides down your throat.  I like it.  It's a bonafide Winter Warmer.  Why am I drinking this in the middle of one of the hottest driest summers in my personal history?  I feel winter warmers are a one shot.  You drink one- to get warm, then you go to bed.  So this is not a session beer.  It's spicy, but not pepper spicy.  It's a lot to swallow, which doesn't mean it's bad.  It just goes back to that one shot thing.  I gotta wrap my head around this.

Pours crystal clear with minimal snow white, Belgiansque foam.  Retention is below average for an IPA with similar lacing.

Aroma has citrus but seemingly from orange peel. Belgian yeast notes are strong as well.  Hops aren't really that prevalent.

Taste brings about the same from the aroma.  The citrus is orange peel in nature, Belgian yeas clove and banana.  Slight pine.  Bitterness in the finish while the hops in the same place are soapy in nature.

Light body and carbonation that is medium.

This beer reminds me of a Belgian Wit complimented by some hops and hops that are my favorite on top of a beer style that isn't my favorite.  I like Pipeworks but this one doesn't do it for me.  Enjoy!

Purchased on 3/19/2011

Pours black in color with a half inch khaki tan head.  Good retention on the head with lacing that sheets down the sides of the glass.

The aroma is big and bold.  Sweet roasted malts, Caramel, Toffee, Coffee, Chocolate.  The aroma very sweet and creamy with a hint of alcohol noticeable.

The taste is fairly similar to the aroma. Starts off with a nice  sweetness followed by some nice coffee flavors. Dark chocolate, and more black coffee that is a slightly bitter, roasted malts, and a slight charred flavor in the middle. The finish has a little booze with a medium bitterness and a coffee and roasted malt aftertaste. As it warms I am getting some dark fruit flavors (prune, raisin) coming out as well as more booze on the finish.

Heavy body with medium carbonation.  Creamy and smooth on the palate with a slight sticky sweetness.

Overall, another very nice beer from Lagunitas.   A very nicely balanced coffee beer with a solid coffee flavor that blends nicely with the dark chocolates and and roasted malt flavors.  An easy drinking beer with a hard to beat price tag. If you like coffee beers, put this one on your "must try" list!

A reddish amber with a slight haze, and a thin foam.

Sour fruits and a touch of vanilla. Faint notes of oakiness. Definately complex and inviting. Not sweet nor bitter. Got a tad of funk too.

Crazy tartness with fruit background notes. Fresh and soft mouth-feel.

I love the tartness, the dryness, and sophisticated fruit notes layered on top. Classy stuff. And don't complain about the cost, they got inventory costs in letting it age.

Really clear and deep gold that skews close to amber. Normal off-white head of low-medium retention.

I can tell from the first whiff this brew is intense. First impression is spice, caramel malt, and alcohol. Hops come through as big sweet tree fruits. Overall smells good, but semi intimidating.

Wow, caramel sweet with fruit, maybe apricot, and then there's the heat. Big hops but held in check by all of the malts. Hop load dries it out so it's not cloying, but this is a thick brew. Decent carbonation which was a bit of surprise.

Way more balanced than was my thought going in. Don't get me wrong, downing a sixer would kill you. But I liked it flavors. Think about the task of blending huge malt bill, 120 ibus, and 15%+ abv, and not hav e it suck. Do you believe it's dry-hopped everyday for a month as the label claims. And, it's a style buster so there's no point of talking about that. I'd definatly recommend buying a bottle, but only one at a time.

Pours a clear amber brown color with a one finger white head.  Good retention on the head.  Lots of sticky lacing that sheets down the sides of the glass.

The aroma is sweet with caramel malt, dark fruits and a hint of spice.

The taste starts of dry and bready with a sweet malt that works into a mild hop bitterness with a spice showing up on the finish.  The finish leaves the mouth sweet and tingling with spices.  As the beer warms I notice some mild dark fruit in the finish.

Medium body with a higher level of carbonation that tickles the tongue.  A combination of dryness and sticky sweet on the palate.

Overall a nice winter beer with an enjoyable flavor.  A nice balance between bitter and sweet on this beer.  The higher abv is not noticeable and makes for an easy drinking beer.  Another good winter beer for your list! Try one!

Pours a clear deep brown almost black color with a fluffy one inch tan head.  Some web like lacing.

The aroma is very nice. Pine and citrus hop aromas mix with a dark roasted malt and a bit of chocolate as well as a hint of floral.  A fairly complex aroma that is very inviting.

The taste is right on the money as well.  Big and bold.  A spicy pine and citrus  hops blends nicely with dark roasted malts, a bit of chocolate and some licorice on the finish.  All the flavors are huge and work together very nicely.

Medium body with medium to higher carbonation.  Creamy mouth feel with a dry bitter finish.  I do notice some heat from the higher abv on the finish.

This beer has a lot of Russian imperial stout flavors mixing nicely with the big hops making it a really nice beer.  Very easy drinking for a big flavored higher abv style beer, which could make this one dangerous!  A very nice winter beer with a lot of nice big personality!  Put this one on your must try list!

Pours an amber brown color with a quarter inch yellow tan head.  The head dissipates quickly, leaving a ring of foam around the edges of the glass and a swirl of foam resting on top.  Very little lacing.

The aroma is simple.  Sweet Malts and nuts.

The taste is fairly mild with sweet malt and a nutty flavor and finishes with an odd metallic flavor that lingers in the after taste with a hint of coffee and dark fruit.  A fairly sweet flavor from start to finish.

Light body with medium carbonation.  A slightly grainy mouthfeel with a dryness in the finish.

Overall, I am not very impressed.  Starts with some nice brown ale flavors, but they are relatively mild and then everything is lost to a strange metallic flavor that lingers on the palate.  An easy drinking beer, but the flavors are off.  Give one a try and decide for yourself.

Pours black in color with a thin dark tan colored head that quickly dissipates and leaves a thin layer of creamy looking foam resting on top.  Very little lacing.

The aroma is on the lighter side, but I get a nice blend of dark roasted malts, bitter chocolate and coffee with a hint of vanilla.

The taste resembles the aroma is ways, but is much more robust.  A combination of dark flavors meet the palate with dark roasted malts, bitter chocolates, dark fruit and molasses working into an earthy hop flavor that blends with a bitter coffee on the finish.  A fairly bitter beer with a touch of milk chocolate sweetness in the finish and aftertaste.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Creamy and smooth, making it very drinkable for a beer with a higher ABV that is well hidden.

Overall, this is a solid Imperial Stout from Two Brothers.  A great combination of dark flavors that are well balanced and enjoyable.  This beer is very drinkable for an Imperial Stout and makes this a great beer to enjoy on a cold windy winter night! Try one!

Pours opaque with a half glass and more tan, thick foam.  Frothier as it recedes, which last a good bit, there is some sparse lacing.

Roasted malt greets the nose from several feet away on the initial pour.  Milk chocolate and hazel nut are also present.

Taste is roasted malt up front that gives way to some sweet, chocolate, and bitter coffee in the end that lingers into the finish.  There is a spice hop in the finish too.  Back of the throat really caries the coffee.

Medium body at best with ample carbonation, maybe a bit too much, and a nice creaminess.

I seen some say this beer doesn't have a big enough body for a stout.  it is not an imperial stout and stouts don't have to have a body that you have to eat with a fork and knife.  I think the roasted malt might be a bit too much forward for me, could have used more balance but overall a solid offering.  Enjoy!

Medium gold, nice solid color with a few tiny floaters. Soft, white foam of average retention.

A little bready caramel, faint citrus, and an unknown fruit that might be the honey. Not unattractive, just different than other DIPAs.

Surprisingly, first impression is that a pure beer taste comes through. After additional tastes I come up with some muted citrusly fruit, and the malt sweetness of the DIPA is held in check fairly well. There's a touch of alcohol astringency in the background. Not overly bitter. And the more I try, I start find what I think is the honey taste lingering in the after taste.

It's probably a tad overly sweetness and a tad under hopped. Or maybe the honey over-rides more favored elements of the DIPA style. I was hyped by local Madisonians into believing this brew would be a fantastic experience. Not a bad beer, a couple of parts not completely working together.

Pours a clear dark brown with a light yellow one finger head.  Head dissipates after a few minutes leaving a thin swirl of foam floating on top.  Very little lacing.

The aroma is big on citrus and floral hops.  Very inviting and refreshing.

The taste is very similar to the aroma.  A nice tropical citrus hop flavor with a light floral hop that is well balanced by a roasted malt.

Light to medium body with light carbonation.  Watery mouth feel with a slightly dry finish.

Overall a very nice beer with a great hop profile that is perfectly balanced by the roasted malts.  A very solid beer that should be a guide for Black IPA brews.

It is a chilly evening tonight and a dark strong beer sounded good.

Pours a pitch black color with a dark tan quarter inch head.  Good retention with lots of thick spotty lacing.

Aroma is a nice mix of strong dark scents. I am getting roasted malts, a bit of coco, and dark coffee.

Taste is very similar to the aroma, but wow this beer packs a major bitter punch up front!  Dark roasted malts that work into a strong coffee flavor with a hint of smoke.  Bitterness is long lasting.

Full bodied beer with light to medium carbonation.  Creamy and smooth on the palate.

I really like this beer.  It is well balanced and has lots of bold flavors. A very enjoyable beer on a cold night! Try one!

Pours hazy with a finger of meringue foam to cover.  Retention is pretty good with a touch of lacing.  Effervescent.

Aroma is perfect for the style: coriander, wheat, and Belgian yeast.

Taste follow pepper, orange, wheat, and maybe even hay scintillate the taste buds.

Light body with a very high, effervescent carbonation that tickles the mouth.

Damn easy to drink, almost sinfully so.  Beer is spot on for the style and quite tasty.  Recommended for anyone.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with a half inch of pure, snow white foam.  Retention was fleeting while lacing is spotty and slick.

Aroma is sort of ligh grainy and slight spicy saaz hops.

Taste is about the same.  Grainy malt with a back-end spice hops that leaves little to no bitterness.  Sense of adjuncts?

Light body with a effervescent carbonation that is a bit dry.

An average beer at best as there are issues with the carbonation and a bit of adjuncts present in the taste and aroma.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with a half glass of thick foam.  Retention is nice building up thickness, becoming frothy.  Lacing begins immediately; quite sticky.

Aroma is a sweet caramel backbone that is busting at the hips with hops.  Citrus and pine are abundant making the nose joyful.

Taste is dominated by hops.  There might be a hint of caramel malt but the hops takes over from the beginning, not letting go until it culminates in a nice spicey, citrus bitterness that lingers a bit.

Thin body with medium or better carbonation that dries the palate.

The body could be a bit fuller but on the whole it works for the beer as this is an expression of the hop.  Bitterness and higher ABV make this tough to through back a few but the bitterness is nice.  Enjoy!

Vintage 2012

Pours a slightly cloudy medium amber color with a huge frothy tan head.  The head settles down to a quarter inch with thick sticky lacing.

The aroma is big on the dark fruits, raisins and prunes with a sugary sweetness.  A fairly big citrus aroma is noticeable as well.

The taste is similar to the aroma with the a big citrus flavor showing up on the start and following with a blend of citrus and dark fruits.  The dark fruits continue into the finish with the citrus still holding strong and makes for a big part of the after taste.  Some spice shows up near the finish and stays for the after taste with some fairly bold bitterness.

Medium to heavy body with medium carbonation.  Sticky and sweet on the lips with a smoothness on the palate.

Overall, a tasty brew.  Lots of bold flavors with the citrus and hops creating a nice balance to the sweetness.  A hoppy barely wine which is not the norm, but well done and very enjoyable.  Try one!

Pours clear with about an inch of off-white foam.  Retention is average with a bit of froth building before going away for good.  Lacing is very sporadic.

Aroma is big on the hops as should be expected from a west coast imperial IPA.  Resinous scents carry citrus and pine on top of a pale malt backbone.

Taste is a bit sweet with wave after wave destroying my palate.  Pine and grapefruit via for attention, quickly grabbing it and not letting go.  Maybe a slight toast or bread malt in the middle.

Medium body and the same amount of carbonation.

They make 'em good in California.  The hops are spot on west coast and make this beer fun to drink.  The bomber didn't stand a chance but I couldn't follow up quickly behind this one with another but definitely good for another in the future.  Enjoy!

 Orangey gold, mostly clear with an ever so slight haze. Soft white foam of medium retention.

 Pure tropical fruit, mangos and whatever else your mind's eye conjures up. But, the point is how pronounced the fruitiness is and how genuinely inviting. Nothing detracts from the scent, not sweetness, not alcohol, nothing is out of balance. While, you know there's some alcohol, it only as a subtle side show.

 Well the first taste continues the perfect experience. My initial thoughts are the perfect tropical fruit notes in the scent carries over into the taste, and the malt sweetness of the DIPA style is muted. There's mostly a tangy, citrusiness to the aftertaste, very pleasant. Bitterness is non-existant. The mouthfeel is proper, not at all thick and in fact could be a tad fully.

 Second best beer I've had this year (first right now is Alpine-Expo Hoppiness). This brew's outstanding fruit profile almost says to put it in the produce section of your local grocery store. More and more brewers are jumping on the Citra hop bandwagon for good reason. Plus, the level of drinkability is off the charts, the taste flavors keep me coming back for more. I am a HUGE fan of Kern River when I can trade for it, and consider mysself lucky to have gotten a taste of Citra.

Pours clear with a half inch of white foam.  Retention was average at best with juicy lacing that mostly sinks back to level.

Aroma seems to have lost the hops but bread and sweet malts come through.

Taste follows what I found on the nose with a chunk of bitterness in the finish.

Medium body with medium carbonation.

The beer doesn't seem that fresh and it sort of took my thunder out of the review.  Enjoy!

 Pale golden with some haze. Soft white foam that fades away at a quick pace.

 Tangerines and low level butterscotch, very pleasant. Some other tropical's, but I can't distinguish between mango, pineapple,

 Grapefruit, pine, and a touch of grass. Very low malt sweetness. Not too dry, but it's a very clear and crisp beer.

Pours clear with a half inch of pure white, thin foam.  Retention is average.  Lacing is somewhat thick and sticky.

Aroma is more malt forward than expected but that is fine.  Caramel and biscuit malt with a bit of fruity and citrus hops on the back end.

Taste follows quite a bit.  Caramel and biscuit malts are strong up front through the middle, lingering into the finish.  Hops add quite a bit of bitterness in the finish that has some staying power.

Light body with light carbonation.  Dries the palate slowly.

An easy drinking beer that could be even easier if the pronounced bitterness didn't interrupt the rest of the beer so much.  A quality offering that is just a touch off of being awesome.  Enjoy!

Pours a beautiful dark amber with a think quarter inch head.  Head dissipates quickly leaving a  thin swirl of light tan foam floating on top.  Lacing is spotty, but heavy.

Aroma is mild but enjoyable.  Light malt with a bit of fruit. Apples, maybe pear and a hint of floral hops.

Taste follows the aroma pretty closely.  Slightly bitter with a sweet malt working its way into a fruity apple or pear flavor.

Lighter body with medium carbonation.  Smooth and enjoyable while leaving a dry palate.

Overall and pretty good beer.  This is not a style that I drink very often, but I did enjoy it and would have it again.

Poured from a 12 month old bottle.

Pours cloudy with a bunch of little floating particles.  Foam is white, about an inch in height but has below average retention.  Lacing isn't part of this beers' repertoire.

Aroma is fruit, banana, and clove foremost.  Slightly sweet but not much else.

Taste of Belgian yeast, spice, clove, banana, sweet, and fruits.  There is some earthy quality to the beer I didn't expect.  The same earth quality gives a musty, dry, cellar type feel to the finish.

Dries the palate on this medium bodied beer with a peppy zip to the carbonation.

I think Dark Horse makes better beer than this and I would have those again before this beer, but I would have this beer again.  Much better offerings within the style that are easier to get.  An "average" offering as the spice/clove is a bit over powering for me.  Enjoy!

Copper and orange color with slight haze. Soft white smallish foam.

Pineapple and mango are super pronounced. A touch of sweetness.

Awesome blend of tropical fruits, while some sweetness, a quick grapefruit bitter even it out. Finish taste is more spicy than bitter. Smooth for a 10% abv, the heat is an accent not pronounced.

Lush-full candied fruit, and balanced all the way across. These dudes at Pipeworks are nailed IPAs and DIPAs.

2012 Vintage

Pours a dark brown that is so dark that it is just on the edge of being black.  The pour produces a thin dark tan head that quickly dissipates and becomes a ring of foam around the edges of the glass.  Very little, if any lacing.

The aroma is very dark and rich with roasted malts, coffee, dark chocolate and a hint of molasses and smoke.

The taste is deep dark and rich, just like the aroma hinted at.  A creamy dark cocoa and coffee with a roasted bitter sweet flavor start things off.  The rye and whisky blends into the flavors near the middle with a dark fruit and molasses near the end.  The finish is fairly dry with a citrus acidity hops, and some smokiness.

Big body with light to medium carbonation.  Creamy smooth mouthfeel with a sweetness on the lips. A touch of alcohol is noticeable in the aftertaste.

Overall, an impressive beer.  The dark rich flavors melt in your mouth with an almost candy like appeal.  Very well balanced with a very drinkable creamy smoothness that matches that flavors perfectly.  This makes for a great cold night beer.  If you are a stout or porter drinker, this one will be right up your alley.  Put this beer on your must try list! It's a winner!

From a four year old bottle.

Pours clear but with a ton of small particulate floating throughout.  Foam is minimal as is the amount of retention.

Aroma is big on the alcohol.  Lots of caramel, grain, and toast malt scents.  The malt leans towards sweet overall (my first overall impression).  Dark fruit, maybe plum.

Taste of plum up front, lingering throughout.  Caramel, toast, and grain comes through but is light, especially compared with the aroma.  Bitterness in the finish, more due to the alcohol.

Big mouth feel with mild carbonation.  Surprisingly doesn't dry the palate but leaves a helping of sweetness.

The beer is too sweet for the style.  Being a big Belgian pale ale, I don't feel there should be a huge amount of sweetness.  A little disappointed in the beer.  Enjoy!

Tastes like fruity wine. Crystal clear, you can read through it. Carmel in color, plums, raisins?  Not a lot of malt. Dry. Is it to style?  I don't think so, but it's pleasant.

Full disclosure: This is beer #2 in Two Bros 15 Beers for 15 Years. Have been in my basement since release in summer 2012.

Deep Brown but clear.  A small amount of tan, soft foam.

Tree fruit (cherry and apple) with a touch of sour. Also some notes of euro brewery malts. All in all a pretty appealing smell.

Definitely a hefeweizen cousin. the banana and clove are not overwhelming. And, I do like the malt flavors, toasted breadiness with the sweetness held in check.

Decent brew, nothing off. Doesn't push any boundaries, a safe sessionable brew.

From a 2009 bottle.

Pours slightly cloudy with a bountiful light tan, densely packed foam to cover.  Foam froths on top as it slowly recedes, leaving a thick sheen of sticky lacing in it's wake.

Aroma is malt forward.  The malts are age toffee is in the forefront while dark fruits of raisin and plum add complexity.  As expected the hops seem to have fallen out.

Taste is combination of light end caramel sweetness and some darker notes associated with the crystal malt family.  The sweetness in the finish is reminiscent of candy, almost artificial.  There are also hints of bitterness and chocolate/roasted malt hiding out as well in the finish; possibly adding to the bitterness.  The beginning of the beer is uneventful.  The middle brings the dark malt profile plus toffee.

Surprisingly thin in spite of the sweetness (but the sweetness is even thin).  Moderate carbonation.

After having this in the cellar for so long, I was a bit disappointed.  The sweetness, especially in the finish, doesn't help, lessening the depth and breath of the beer.  Not a bad beer, just so many other choices in the style that are much more pleasing.  Enjoy!

Deep gold that goes close to orange. A slight haze and a soft off white foam head.

The fruit aroma is crazy enticing. Most prevalent is raspberries then a mix misc fruits and some sugars.

Surprise, totally not sweet nor fruity. More subtle than the description of the beer would lead you to believe.  Can't tell it is a 10.5% abv. Medium high level of carbonation, but seems to fit this beer.

Very drinkable and interesting. The aroma is crazy good, but it's not a fruit beer. Some of the characteristics of a tripel, but definately off on it's own path.

Bottled on 11/17/09

Pours black with a brown frothy head.  The head quickly subsides leaving a thin ring of tan foam around the edges of the glass.  Spotty lacing.

The aroma is rich, big and bold.  Dark fruits, and molasses are the aromas coming off this beer with a bit of alcohol that warns me that this beer is going to warm me up.

The taste matches the aroma with rich bold flavors that are warm and inviting.  Starts sweet with a dark fruit flavors that remind me of black cherries and pruns moving into a dark roasted malts, creamy milk chocolate and molasses.  The alcohol shows its self in the finish and warms you almost immediately.  Amazing flavors on this beer that are not in the least bit shy.

Big body with light carbonation.  Milky and smooth with a bit of a syrup type mouth feel.

Overall, I am really impressed with this beer.  This is a perfect winter beer for a cold winter night.  The flavors and the aroma are big and bold.  The alcohol is warming and seems to match the big flavor perfectly.  This is a must try beer for the BIG beer stout lovers!

Wonderful opening aroma, great color looks exciting.  Opening drink, huh.  It must be the guava, it's different.  The flavor is so specific, I find it very different than the aroma.  It doesn't taste like what I imagine an APA tastes like.  Having said that, once the bitter burns in... its pleasant- in it's own unique way.  I would consider a single bomber shared a pleasant drink.  Several?  Probably not.  It's good for limited edition.

Pours clear as expected.  A fair amount of white, frothy foam that has some solid retention.  Lacing is sparse.

Aroma is mainly toasted and toffee malt.  The toffee and even caramel malts give it a definite sweetness.

Taste is obviously malt forward.  Toasted and toffee malt really come through.  A bit of spice and earth hops come through in the finish.  Ever so slightly bitter.  The malt actually lingers a bit.

Medium body with a comparable carbonation.

A solid Oktoberfest offering that is easy drinking.  After last years crazy set of seasonal beers, this is my single seasonal beer, this year, and I would go for it again.  Enjoy!

Black as a moonless midnight in the woods. Dark tan foam with medium retention.

Licorice and malt. Simple but attractive.

Smoky malt mixes interestingly with the licorice. Some molassess sweetness. 2BDs agreed there was almost a minty aftertaste. Medium light mouthfeel. Good level of carbonation.  

 I need to try this again. It's very unusual. There's nothing wrong or off-putting about the beer. The licorice kinds of dominates, so it's hard to find complexity to enjoy. And there's something about the lingering flavor note that I'm unsure about. But, a grand experiment none the less.

Pours clear with two inches of fluffy, yet thick, off-white foam.  Retention is about average at best while lacing is minimal, if at all.  Sort of a typical pour for an amber.

Aroma is mostly sweet, caramel malt with a hop profile that mostly seems like lemon grass and some floral notes.  Sort of a clean sense to the nose.

Taste is a bit of hops up front before the malt really takes control; the hops do show up again in the finish, but are mild and not really bold or bitter.  The malt really gets going in the middle and builds throughout the rest of the taste.  Sweetness on top of caramel malts, but it seems like some darker caramel malts might have been used to give almost a sense of toffee too.

Medium body with a back loaded carbonation that is light over all.  The front-end seems to have a bit of creaminess actually.

In spite of the ABV, this beer makes you want more and more.  Maybe too sweet for some but there is enough hops to wrangle it up and make it a crisp, refreshing beer.  It is an amber, so I find that category to be a wide range, this fits the bill and is tasty to boot.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with half pour of white, tightly packed foam.   Retention is above average.  Lacing is very thick , coating, and very sticky.

Aroma is fruit an floral hops.  There is an underlying grain that pokes through.

Taste allows for a sweetness with more hop bitterness than hop flavor.  There is a strong sense of alcohol to the finish.

Medium body with a slight creaminess that could be sensed as a bit heavier.  Heavy for an IPA.  Medium carbonation.

A little unbalanced for me with a bitterness that doesn't have the malt bite to subdue.  Hop flavor is minimal.  I would have it again but there are a lot of IIPAs that I would turn to first, still not a bad beer.  Enjoy!

Pours a clear deep golden color with a quarter inch white fluffy head.  Good retention on the head with lots of thick sticky lacing.

The aroma is a blend of grains, yeast, malts and a citrus lemon scent.

The taste is semi-sweet with a bready malt and grain with works into a honey sweetness and finishes with a light citrus lemon flavor that lingers on the palate.

Light body with light to medium carbonation.  Very drinkable with a light dryness in the finish.

Overall this is a very nice beer from New Glarus.  At first glance this beer might come off as being simple, but is simple and complex all at the same time.  Very drinkable and refreshing and would make a great beer to enjoy on a hot day!  Try one!

Pours clear with a good three inches of thick, light brown foam.  Retention is quite goo more than expected, while lacing doesn't exist as the foam is wet a slides with the glass tip.

Aroma is very malt/grain forward as usually expected in a brown, especially English.  Sweet, caramel, and nutty.  The nut profile is really high but pleasant.  Hops don't really come through but the beer seems crisp and clean overall on the nose.

Taste is sweet as expected with a touch of hop bitterness in the finish.  But the malt is the show.  Chocolate and/or dark malt comes through quickly and adds a nice layer to the beer.  Caramel, toffee, grain, etc malt.

A medium bodied beer with enough carbonation to tingle the front of the tongue.  Drying a bit and somewhat creamy.

My first Brau Brothers beer as I have heard good things about them.  Definitely a solid beer that I would have again.  Enjoy!

Poured clear with a nice half glass of white and frothy foam.  Retention was okay with some lacing that left it mark but not much.

Aroma is spicy with a bit of clove while there are ample fruits.  Sort of  cross between light and dark: banana being the most prevalent.

Taste isn't alcoholic like I expected.  Some spice with it mainly coming late but not overpowering the fruits, which have a similar profile as the aroma.  The fruits are there in one shape or another throughout.

Beer is thick and heavy with a good kick of carbonation.  A bit dry but also a little syrupy.  I wouldn't say cloying but darn tootin' close.

Another solid offering from Bell's.  Sort of mad for only picking up one at the time as I had never heard of this beer.  The price point makes this beer even better.  In spite the alcohol a couple of these would be yummy.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with almost a full glass of big-bubbled foam via an aggressive pour.  Retention is okay with the foam becoming a bit frothy.  Lacing is sporadic and minor for the amount of foam.

Aroma is Belgian yeast, clove, pepper, and banana.  Seemed more hefeweizen than expected.

Taste is hard to find much sweet.  Belgian yeast, clove, and some bittering hops.  Even more than those is the pepper.  It is a bit zippy and maybe a little strong as it lingers in the mouth.

Light end of medium body with a zest carbonation.

This is just okay.  The pepper in the taste just takes over the beer to the point that by the middle of the drink, it is all encompassing.  Beer should be much better balanced and my bias against pepper doesn't help.  Enjoy!

Pours a medium amber with a half inch cream white head.  Nice retention on this beer with spotty lacing.

Aroma is mellow with a bit of malts and a grass hop.

Taste is again relatively mellow.  I am getting a nice sweet malty character upfront that works into a grass hop flavor leaving the palate dry.

Light body with medium carbonation.

Overall an ok beer.  Good, but not as exciting as some of the other New Glarus offerings.  This beer tends to grow on me, the more I drink it the more I am enjoying it.

Pours opaque with a giant, half-glass, brown, thick foam that is very enticing.  Retention is about average while lacing is there but sporadic, thick and a bit sticky.

Aroma is first and utmost dark, roasted malt.  After the pour the scent hits your nose from three feet away.  Subdued dark fruit notes, oatmeal, chocolate, and coffee.

Taste follows the nose.   Huge hits of roasted malt, almost from the start, that give way to chocolate and coffee.    A touch of sweet up front and a touch of bitter in the finish.

Heavy body with a solid contribution from the carbonation.  Really creamy all the way through adding a nice layer of complexity.  Drying on the palate.

Quite good and solid beer.  Really "big" for an oatmeal stout.  The roasted end might be too big for some but I liked it.  More complex and tasty than expected.  I would definitely have this one again.  Possibly even appreciate it more after shoveling the snow in winter.  Enjoy!

Pours a clear black color with a hint of ruby red when held up to the light.  A tan colored one inch head forms on the pour quickly disappearing, leaving a thin swirl of foam floating on top.  No lacing.

The aroma is creamy and sweet with milk chocolates, molasses, some dark fruits and a hint of coffee.

The taste is dark and creamy with milk chocolate, lactose, and molasses being the big flavors that I notice on the first few sips.  A bit of dark fruits some themselves as well a hint of coffee near the finish.  The finish is all about the dark roasted malts and coffee, leaving a fairly bitter aftertaste on the palate.

Big body with medium carbonation.  A creamy smooth mouthfeel with a sticky sweet flavor that lingers on the lips.

Overall another very nice beer from Central Waters.  This beer is dark and rich with flavor.  A very nice winter beer that hits the spot on a cold winter night! Try one!

Pours a super dark black with a thin tan colored head that disappears quickly with a thin swirl of tan foam resting on top.  Some spotty sticky lacing.

The aroma is dark and rich.  Dark roasted malts with a blend of coffee and bitter dark chocolate.  A light citrus hop is noticeable.

The taste is dark and rich and very similar to the aroma.  Dark roasted malts, bitter chocolate, and dark roasted coffee with a citrus hop mixed with a bit of smoke.

Big body with light carbonation.  Creamy mouth feel.

This is an awesome Russian imperial stout.  Big bold flavors with a nice balance between the dark flavors and the citrus hops.  Try one!

Pours a clear pale golden color with a big fluffy white head.   Good retention on the head with spotty watery lacing.

Aroma is simple pleasant and clean.  I am getting grassy aromas mixed with a hint of lemon, malts and yeast.

Taste is simple and straight forward.  A grain malt upfront works into a light sweet lemon flavor and finishes with a mild earthy hop dryness.  Refreshing, crisp and clean with a sweet aftertaste.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Mouthfeel is watery, but smooth.

A nice summer beer with great drinkability.  Flavors and aromas are simple and straight forward, but makes for an easy drinking summer beer.  Nicely balanced and an enjoyable beer!

Pours a light brown with a hint of red.  Very little head on the pour but a white creamy ring of foam clings to the side of the glass.  Spotty watery lacing.

Aroma is raspberry and more raspberry!  Sweet with a bit of tartness.  The freshness of the raspberries in the aroma is mind boggling.

Taste follows the aroma perfectly. Very Fresh raspberry that is both slightly sweet with a tart finish.  Perfect flavors here, the raspberry is intoxicating and amazingly fresh.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Tart on the finish.

Overall this beer is perfect!  The flavors are so rich and full.  The raspberry tastes fresh as the day they were picked.  A must try fruit beer that I will pick up every time I make it to Wisconsin.

Pours pitch black if color with a thin tan colored head.  The head dissipates quickly leaving a ring of foam around the edges of the glass and a swirl of foam floating on top. Some spotty watery lacing.

The aroma is dark, rich and sweet.  Bitter chocolate, dark fruit, a hint of molasses and coffee.

The taste is big and just as dark, rich, and sweet as the aroma.  Roasted malts and coffee with a hint of smoke work into a bitter chocolate and finishes with a dark fruit and molasses.  Creamy and milky smooth.

Big body with medium carbonation.  Creamy and smooth on the palate with a sweetness that lasts on the palate.  The higher ABV is not noticeable in the flavor.

An impressive Russian Imperial Stout!  This one should be on your must try list if you have never had it.  Great aromas as well as, well balanced dark rich flavors that are bold and warming.  Try one!

2012 Vintage

Pours a clear dark golden color with a thin half inch creamy white head.  The head settles out quickly leaving a thin layer of creamy white foam resting on top. Lots of thick lacing sheets the sides of the glass.

The aroma has a fairly bold caramel malt with a nicely balanced citrus scent blending in.  Some musty earthy scents are noticeable as well.

The taste follows the aroma with a sweet caramel malt blending into an earthy hop flavor.  The earthy hops continue on into the finish with a nice orange citrus flavor joining near the end.  A bitterness in the finish that offsets the sweet malts and works nicely with the citrus notes.

Medium body with light carbonation.  Creamy mouthfeel with a slight oiliness on the palate. Slightly dry on the finish.

Another enjoyable beer from Tyranena brewing.  An IPA with a very distinct earthy flavor that is well crafted and balanced nicely with malts and citrus.  A refreshing beer to enjoy after mowing the lawn or burying your loot.  Try one!

Pours a clear deep golden color with a big bubbled fluffy white head.  Good retention on the head.  The carbonation is interesting to watch on this beer as a turbulent storm of bubbles size from the bottom of the glass. Some spotty watery lacing.

The aroma is a mix of bready malts, grassy hops and a bit of yeast with some floral notes as well.

The taste bares a lot of resemblance to the aroma.  Starts with a slightly bitter earthy hop that works into bready semi sweet malt.  The sweetness lingers on the finish with a bit of floral hops tagging along as well.

Light body with a high level of carbonation.  Watery very drinkable mouthfeel with a crisp prickly finish from the high level of carbonation.  Slightly dry.


Overall I like this beer.  I was expecting a hop bomb as that seems to be a signature style for Three Floyds, but it was surprisingly not. It has a simple ness that makes it an easy drinking beer with enough complexity to make it above average and enjoyable.  A good starter beer for someone starting out in the craft beer world.

Pours a rich brown color with a half inch creamy white head.  Medium retention with above average lacing.  I am getting a solid layer of lacing all the way down the glass.

Aroma is simple and mild. I am getting malt with a nuttiness.

Taste is much more impressive.  A nice nutty flavor at the start that works into a nice malt on the backend.  In the finish I get a hint of coffee which is a nice surprise.

Light body with low to medium carbonation.

Overall this is a really good beer.  I was worried that I would be disappointed when I gave it a sniff after pouring it, but the flavor more that makes up for the weak aroma.  Light enough to enjoy year round.  I'll be having this one again!

Pours a clear rich golden amber color with a finger width white head.  Good retention on the head.  Good amout of lacing.

Aroma is mild.  I am getting mostly malt and a bit of grain.

Taste is simple and straight forward.  Grainy with a hint of malts.  Mildly sweet.  A dry semi bitter earth hop finish.

Lighter body with medium carbonation.  Watery on the palate.

Overall an enjoyable beer.  Fairly simple and straight forward.  Goes down easy, but nothing that makes it really stand out.  Just a simple solid beer.

Note: Bottled on 2010-05-10

A vigorous pour gives a cloudy liquid with two plus inches of off white, thick, frothy foam.  Retention isn't bad but the foam doesn't become thicker as it recedes.  Lacing is sticky, thin but quite good.

Aroma has a big citrus hop scent.  Caramel, bread, earth, and spice are other aromas found in the beer.

Taste is subdued sweet up front with an ending that builds.  Bread, earth, and another blast of citrus comes in big.  Some spice hop adds to the citrus in the finish to give an ending that is bitter, spicey, and fruity.

A medium bodied beer with a solid, prickly carbonation angle.  Mostly a malt forward IPA.

As mentioned above, mostly a malt forward IPA, which really isn't what I am looking for in the style, especially from the west coast.  The bitterness comes on stronger and stronger the more I drink; not well balanced.  I would have again but not before I looked for a ton of other solid west coast IPAs.  Enjoy!

 Soft orange gold with slight hazy. Normal off-white foam head of average duration.

 Super enticing aroma. Sweet tree fruits and some orange citrus. Hard to detect malts and much else, past the fruit...but that's OK.

 Juicy fruit, with sweetness held in check by a sharp but low bittering hop. It has an interesting spicey tang that's unique. High medium mouthfeel.

 These dudes know how to make IPA's and DIPA's. It uses an old school hop in a West Coast style. But there's some unique aspects to the taste profile.

 Definitely deep brown color. Nice full foam of soft bubbles that were light khaki color. Fairly quick dissipation of most of the foam, but a decent ring hung for awhile.

 First is pine resiny aroma, but then it's hard to get past and define what else is there. Working hard at further detection, a little toasted biscuit....but after that I'd just be making shit up.

 Pine and hop resins. Not much sweetness nor is it overly bitter. Citrus tart without a specific fruit coming to mind. Medium mouth feel and appropriate carbonation.

 A totally style bending brew. My buddy's and I argued whether or not this should be more correctly classified as a Black IPA. It was hard to isolate individual flavors, partly it's because the beer is really nicely balanced. If I had a knock, it's that could use a bit more complexity of underlying flavors. A unique brew to sort through, but a very good one. No question that I would have this beer again.

Pours clear with a half-inch of light tan foam at best.   Retention is as to be expected from a small amount of foam at first.  Lacing is juicy and spotty with most falling back.

Aroma across as light for me.  Dark fruits are the strongest here.  Toffee is about the only other scent emanating from the snifter.  Later a touch of alcohol is there too.

Taste is a bit subdued overall as the nose.  Toffee is the fuel for the flavor with dark fruits, a touch of alcohol, and a bit of bitterness in the end.

Medium body with nary any carbonation.  Nothing out of the ordinary.

Drinkability is the speciality of the beer.   The aroma and taste are both light.  Nothing is bad in this beer there just isn't enough there to make it really stand out.  Enjoy!

Slightly cloudy with an inch of white foam.  Nice retention with spotty and sporadic lacing.

Caramel from the malt with a touch of sweet.  Don't feel they are connected though. Bread?  Citrus hops.

Carmel holds up the malt end.  Citrus, orange from the hops. Balanced. Slight bitter but clean in the finish. Doesn't linger.

Medium body, almost creamy. Light end of medium carbonation

Served too warm. Probably close to 50 degrees, it not more. I don't like a cold beer either but that is too warm. An earthiness, almost dankness came from the hops. Like they were old.  A nice beer overall.  Enjoy!

From a bottle bottled in August 2009.

Pours opaque with minimal hints of light around the edges.  Foam is a pleasant tan that is nicely packed.    Retention is nice, leaving spotty traces.

Aroma has hints of tart dark cherry and must.  Sherry maybe.

Taste is a bit more complex, giving hints of past glory.  Cherry and sherry give a tart and dank mustiness to the beer.  Dark malts come late: roast with a hint of drying ashiness.

Medium mouth feel.  Medium carbonation with small bubbles almost coming up the nose late in the experience.

Very difficult to grade since it is well past the prime and definitely slightly hit by wild yeast or bacteria.  I defintely want to have it again in order to give the beer a fair review.  Enjoy!

Pours slightly cloudy with some minuscule floaties.  Foam with white, thick, and an inch thick.  Retention is nice but average or so for an IPA.  Lacing is thick, webbed at times, and throughout.

Aroma is hop forward.  The snifter grabs the grass, tropical fruit, orange, and stone fruit.  A slight malt sweetness brings up the rear.

Taste brings more of the same.  A sweetness carries throughout, culminating in the finish with light bitterness and hop orange, grass, and tropical.  A lingering stone fruit essence carries.

Medium body with a mild carbonation allows the hops to shine and coat the mouth.

Not as crazy west coast as I would expect.  Still a really nice IPA.  The combination of hops is classic with a twis El Dorado hops, lending a unique blend.  Easy to drink and slightly dry in the finish.  Great for the summer.  Enjoy!

 Really a deep gold but clear as high pressure late August sky.

 Peach fruit notes and sweetness. Draws me in.

 Crazy maze of flavors. Funky fruits and spicy grass notes. Then sweet, but no specific sugar flavors. Rolls into a touch of dryness, but now citrus fruit. Finally ends in a really nice bitterness roll.

 Cool ass beer. A seriously original take on the WC style. This should be a classic. Seeems esp Germanic with the 9.5abv%. This is what the drink of October fest should be. Hope to have again. BTW: great deal at $6.99 a bomber.

Poured from a bottle dated March 2010.

Pours extremely clear with a finger of pure white foam.  Retention is whimsical as is the lacing.

Aroma picks up spice from the yeast.   Grain and apricot add a bit of complexity.  The hops have fallen out.  No alcohol.

Taste is grain and spice that builds throughout.  Quite spicey overall.  Mild apricot flavors hit late, lingering.  Not much overall fruitiness from the yeast.

Medium body with mild carbonation.  Dries the palate.  Age has muted the alcohol.  Hops have dropped.

A hoppy tripel that age has muted the hops.  Dry but not overly complex.  This is a nice tripel but not great.  I would meander back to it again but would want something fresher to see how fresh hops would change the beer.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 9 (22%)
Taste: 10 (40%)
Look: 8 (10%)
Drinkability: 9 (28%)
Overall: 9.3

Short Rating
Arom 8 (22%)
Taste: 9 (40%)
Look: 10 (10%)
Drinkability: 8 (28%)
Overall: 8.6

Pours clear as I can tell.  Frothy, tightly packed foam is about 1.5 inches high and tan.  Frothier as it recedes, the lacing seems to seek its level.

Aroma is a little subdued as I would expect a bold, rich malt to shine through based on the grain bill.  Instead I mostly get sweet caramel and toast.  Darker, richer aromas are hit and miss and way in the back.

Taste is sweet and soft up front followed by a rush of dark, roasted, coffee, and chocolate flavors that stick around.  There is a bit of burnt caramel and toast long into the aftertaste.

Thin for the style as I don't think I could call this medium body.  If I wanted to fake it, I could agree with the site and say it is a touch cream, at times.

I like big, bold German lagers and I was hoping I was in for a treat.  This one missed a bit as it seems light on the aroma, bolder in the taste but not balanced or to character.  It seems to have a lot of root in a porter.  Enjoy!

2011 Celebration Ale

This beer pours a medium amber color with a hint of copper and a robust white fluff head.  Good retention on the head with lots of lacing.

Aroma is a bit on the weak side for my liking, but I am getting a nice malt aroma with pine hop and a little bit of grapefruit hiding in the back.

The weak aroma had me worried that the taste would be weak also, but the first sip proved that wrong.  A nice big blast of citrus and pine hops blends with a nice sweet malty character.  The citrus flavors remind me of grapefruit and creates a nice contrast to the pine hop.  This beer finishes up with a hint of spice on the backend, followed by a dry slight bitterness.  I am getting a bit of heat from the alcohol on the finish.

A step up from having a light body with medium carbonation.  The grapefruit flavors have a nice lasting quality in the aftertaste.

A nice offering from Sierra Nevada.  A well rounded IPA with a nice hop character that is well balanced with the sweet malt.  Get this one fresh or you won't be tasting it at its best.  Happy Holidays!

Pours a black color with a hint of ruby redness around the edges of the glass as I hold it up to light.  Thin tan head with low retention.  Very little lacing.

Aroma is on the sweeter side with a nice blend of dark chocolate and roasted malts.

Taste is sweet up front with a milky  dark chocolate and roasted malts flavors.  Milky, Creamy and Smooth.  A slight bitterness in the finish.

Full bodied with a medium to high carbonation.  Slightly dry on the finish.

Overall a solid beer.  Everything is well balanced and enjoyable.  Great drinkability with nice aromas and flavors.  Try one!

I have family in Kalamazoo MI, so I had to try this one just for the name alone since I have been to Kazoo every year for as long as I can remember.

Pours a deep black with a thin dark tan head.  Head quickly dissipates leaving swirl of milky foam on top.  Spotty lacing.

Aroma is relatively mellow.  I am getting a sweetness with a bit of chocolate and coffee.  Maybe even a hint of licorice.

Taste is rich and satisfying.  I am getting roasted malts on my first sip.  This works it's way into rich chocolate and coffee mix.

Mouth feel is milky and smooth even but the body on this beer is relatively light for this style with light to medium carbonation.

Overall a very tasty satisfying stout.  Would have another.  Next time I am in Kalamazoo, I would love to try it on tap!

Pours black with a dark tan colored head.  The head starts slow and quickly rises to form a thick tightly formed head with great retention.  Thick lacing that sheets down the sides of the glass.

The aroma is on the weaker side, but I do notice some dark malts, milky chocolate, and a sweet molasses with a hint of alcohol.

The taste is big and bold.  Starts with a sweet milk chocolate and works into a bitter coffee and dark roasted malts with a warmth from the alcohol.  A bit of sweet molasses dances around different parts of the flavor with a hint of both citrus and earthy hops surfacing near the finish as well.

Big body with medium carbonation.  Milky and smooth on the palate with a bitter dry finish and a warmth from the alcohol.

Overall, a very impressive beer.  Bell's nails it with this beer!  Smooth dark flavors that work perfectly with the warmth given off from the alcohol and makes this a rich bold beer that is perfect on a cold night. This is my kind of winter warmer!  Try one!

Pours a hazy deep amber with a half inch pale yellow head.  Head dissipates quickly leaving a thin swirl of milky foam on top.  Very little lacing.

Aroma is caramel malts and bread.  Maybe a hint of dark fruits.

Taste is similar to the aroma with lots of caramel malts and bread, then works its way into a nice raisin or plum flavor.  Flavors are well balanced and enjoyable, but relatively mild.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Creamy and smooth.

Overall an enjoyable beer, but not super memorable.  Pretty much just a "good beer" but nothing super impressive.

Pours cloudy with some floaties.  On top is an inch of white foam that has, at best, average retention.  Lacing sheets but slides back to liquid level.

Aroma has Belgian yeast, banana, sweet, pepper, and clove.  That's really about it.

Taste is similar but has the twist of more fruit banana, pear, and fresh fruit.  The sweetness is more balanced by the pepper and clove than hops.  Belgian yeast lingers on the tongue as do some spices.

Medium body with fair carbonation.  Leaves a bit of stickiness on the lips and coats the mouth.

Really liked this beer but loses a few notches because of the high sweetness that lingers.  Good flavor and aroma with a sense of easy drinking since the beer comes across lighter than it really is.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque with an inch of brown, thick foam.  Retention is average or better while the lacing is thick and coating but only at the level of the liquid.

Aroma is bitter chocolate, oak, vanilla, coffee of some sorts (not a coffee drinker so it is all the same to me), and roasted malt.  Quite attractive for the sniffer.

Taste is a bit sweet to start with chocolate.  Next comes a transition that brings on bitter chocolate, roasted malt, and coffee.   The coffee stays and lingers a bit while the combination of the coffee and bitter chocolate gives the mouth an idea of cream.

Medium or bigger body with low carbonation.  Dries the palate with no mention of the ABV.

Quite a good drink.  The combination of the coffee and chocolate is about perfect.  The alcohol is hard to find, making this beer ridiculously easy to drink for the size.  Enjoy!

Poured from a 2011 bottle.

Pours opaque into my snifter with an inch of tan, frothy head that has about a medium amount of retention.  Lacing is minimal and seeks the level.

Aroma is quite interesting.  Tart cherries come on top of sweet chocolate, roasted malt, and bourbon.  The bourbon seems to give off a sweet scent that seems to have brown sugar written all over it.

Taste has tart cherries up front and pretty much throughout the drink.  The beer and bourbon start to fight through mid sip.  This brings on bourbon, oak, chocolate, sweet molasses, and slight roasted notes that are strongest in the end into the finish, with a lingering sensation of bourbon, sweet, and tart.  I did server this fairly warm but as it got up into the 60s, it seems that the tart gives way a bit to the underlying beer but is still noticeable.

Medium body with medium or better carbonation that seems tide to the cherry tart.  Definitely dries the palate.

The spin of adding tart cherries to a bourbon aged imperial stout is interesting; I like this beer.  But I would take a straight imperial stout aged in bourbon over this any time, as the carbonation was a bit high and the tartness just distracted me too much from the base beer and bourbon barrel.  Enjoy!

Vintage 2011

Pours an opaque deep ruby brown color with a thin tan head that quickly dissipates leaving a thin ring of foam wrapped around the edges of the glass. Very little if any lacing.

The aroma is deep dark and complex. Bourbon, vanilla, oak and sweet brown sugar malts with a hint of molasses and dark fruit.

The taste is sweet and rich. A sweet caramel malt works into a burnt roasted malt flavor and finishes with bourbon, oak and vanilla. The aftertaste is more of the dark roasted malts and bitter chocolate giving is a bitter, yet sweet finish. A noticeable warmth from the higher ABV blends nicely with a bourbon, vanilla, and oak.

Medium to bigger body with a medium carbonation. Creamy and smooth with a dry semi-sweet, semi-bitter finish.

An awesome beer! The complexity in the aroma is enough to know that this is a well crafted beer. The flavors are smooth rich and full of warmth. Another top notice beer from Central Waters that is in the "Must Try" category if you haven't had it

Pours opaque with a crazy big tan, frothy foam that flooded my snifter on an overly aggressive pour.  Retention is well above average.  Lacing is thick and coating but about half will seek back to level.

Aroma is a touch of tart, maybe cherry.  A dark fruit and sweet molasses are there too.  Deep in there are the dark malts but they are shadowed by the other aromas.

Taste has all of the elements of the aroma but a milt peat/smoke flavor that is subtle to a bit more, which is more than enough for me.  Keep the damn smoke at bay.  The tartness is up front and transitions to the smoke that transforms into sweetness in the end.  Some booze, dark fruits, and sweetness linger on the back of the tongue.

Large mouth feel with an average amount of carbonation that actually seems to suite this beer.  Coats the mouth and is close to being viscous but the other flavors beat it into submission.

One of the few beers that has any type of smokey flavor that I liked.  I would imagine this is a large ABV so it needs to be treated gently.  Pleasantly surprised as I didn't know what to expect.  I would have some more and look forward to other entries into this line of beers.  Enjoy!

 Bright and hazy, orangey amber, with beige medium size foam of medium duration.

 Crisp, clean cirtus blast. First come grapefruit & oranges, next is the pine, then some biscuity notes, and finally a faint wiff of buterscotch.

 Good but somewhat different than I had expected. Fresh, slight sweetness, hop bitter, and mild fruit after taste...are my first impressions.

 Dry and sophisticated.  This smallish brewery in Chicago has had a great reputation since their start, and the sophistication is amped up now 3-4 years in. To me, this is one of their signature brews. And just hard enough to get to be appreciated.

Translucent amber.  Goldish clingy amber with nice bubble.  Citrus aroma with some sweetness?

More bitter than I imagined, some tang on the back end.  A little top heavy on the bitter, slight watery finish.

Reviewed from a year old can.

Pours clear with a half glass of dark tan foam.  Retention is quite good especially after the initial beginning with the remaining foam thickening up.  Lacing, not really.

Aroma is sweet caramel malts.  There is some vanilla and even smoke but not much else.  Subdued.

Taste follows closely with some vanilla a some musty, earthy hops that lend a bitterness quality to the finish while the sweetness and a slight smoke lingers.

Medium body with just about no carbonation.  Dries the lips a bit.

I don't know if this beer should have been aged.  Unfortunately Oskar Blues doesn't find it way to Chicago so it will be a while before I can get a fresh one.  To give you an idea of the age of the can it was the old style.  Anyone have an extra one?  Enjoy!

Initial pour has a half a glass of pristine, white foam while the liquid is cloudy.  Retention is a bit quick for the size.  Lacing is thick, sheeting, but seems to seek back to level.

Aroma has the expected brett with wheat, lemon, and some sweetness that fights the tartness, which is light, surprisingly.

Taste is much more mellow than expected in terms of the tartness that ensues.  It is there but not overwhelming.  Lemon, wheat, and brett round out the taste.

Light body with quite a bit of carbonation.  Dries the palate a bit.

When I read that this beer was 100% brett I was wondering how much enamel would be removed.  It wasn't.  The beer is much more balanced for a wild ale than expected.  Easy drinking and somewhat crisp.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with a thick, off-white, tightly packed foam.  Retention is outstanding while lacing begins as it recedes, leaving sticky sporadic impressionistic art on the glass.

Bread/biscuit and caramel malt sweetness greets the nose.  Clean, fresh, and herbal hops hit for a bit of a balance.

Taste is sweet up front with wave of biscuit and caramel malts settling in.  Toffee comes in the finish and I might even so a slight roast but really ends sweet, leaving the lips sticky.  Once again the clean, fresh hop profile comes on.

Light-medium to medium body with a rather mild carbonation that hits the middle of the tongue.  Dries the palate while leaving a sweetness on the lips.

I haven't had a load of Alt beers to compare this too.  I like the balance, to a point, as the sweet, stickiness left on the lips tells me there might be a bit too much unbalance to the malts.  But the overall simple complexities of the malt and hops allow this beer to be drank rather easily.  Enjoy!

Pours a deep golden color with a nice one inch head.  Head dissipates quickly, with spotty lacing.

Aroma is a huge punch of citrus and floral hops with a hint of pine mixed in.

Taste is smooth and refreshing, but not quite impressive as the aroma, but now in a bad way.  I am getting a nice mix of citrus, floral and pine hops, that are well balanced and enjoyable.  Starts out sweet and works it's way into a hint of bitterness.

Mouth feel is above average.  Very Smooth and refreshing with a light yet creamy body with medium carbonation.

Overall an excellent beer.  It is a very well balanced beer and an easy drinker.  This beer has a little bit of everything. A great summer beer! Try one!

Pours clear with a heaping helping of frothy, tan foam.  Retention is nice with tons of bubbles popping.  Lacing seems to slip immediately back to level but there are rings of sticky, thick foam stuck to the glass here and there.

Aroma has milk chocolate and roasted malts hiding some sweet caramel malt.  Hops are more traditional: herbal, earthly, and spicing.  Quite an appealing aroma.

Taste starts off more sweet from the caramel malts.  The middle begins a voyage of darker: roasted and chocolate.  The end of the drink carries those malts while adding hops to the equation.  The finish brings thoughts of light coffee notes and spicy, earthly hops.

Medium body with carbonation that is bubbly on the tongue from the get go but probably on the lower end of medium over all.

I am a porter fan and Lava Rock doesn't let you down.  Plenty of good aroma and taste with complexity to create interest.  The simple label is only hiding the secrets of what lies within.  Enjoy!

Pours a nice straw color with a rich foamy one inch head.  Good retention with nice lacing.

Aroma is nice balance of yeast and wheat with an earthy character.

Taste is nice balance between malts, yeast, and grain.  Has a sweetness at first that works into a mild bitterness. I am also getting a hint of citrus, maybe orange?  Smooth and refreshing.

Light body with a medium carbonation.  Has a light, but creamy mouth feel.  Crisp Clean and dry.

Overall,  I really enjoyed this beer.  It is not super complex or over the top.  Just a simple top notch beer.  Makes a great summer beer.  Very drinkable and refreshing.

Pours a nice straw yellow with  a quarter inch head.  Low retention, with spotty watery lacing.

Aroma is pretty typical for this style.  Some sweet malts a bit of gain.  Pretty simple aroma.

Taste follows aroma with a sweet malty character and a hint of yeast.  I am getting a very faint hint of a floral character on the back end.

Light body with low to medium carbonation.


Overall a good beer, but nothing to get very excited about. Would drink one of these over a macro brew any day, but it is a pretty simple straight forward beer. Makes a great beer with a burger! Try one if you can get your hands on one, just because it is simple, doesn't mean it is bad!

A vigorous pour brings out a thick, off-white foam on top of the clear liquid.  Retention is well above average creating an even frothier head.  Lacing

Aroma has a earthy nose to the back end otherwise there is toasted and biscuit malts on top of a bed of hops.   The hops are floral and citrus.

Taste follows the aroma but with, at least to me, a touch of coffee (?) and even roasted.  Earthy, biscuit, and toffee malts add, including some sweetness that is beat back by citrus hop bitterness in the finish.  Citrus and malt linger a bit in the back of the mouth.

Light body but maybe a bit bolder while the carbonation is light.  Dries the palate a touch.

My first beer from the Sooner state and I gladly would have this beer again.  I am not an amber fan but this is an amber with class and style.  Finally one that isn't slapped together but, seemingly, put together for real beer drinkers.  Enjoy!

Batch 008

Poured slightly cloudy with a beautiful two inch, pristine white, tightly pack form topping of the beer.  Retention was better than average becoming frothier as it receded.  Lacing wasn't much to comment on.

Aroma is tender but there is some yeast, lemon citrus, and a touch of pepper.  There is a slight funk in the background.

Taste has some wheat, yeast, and a similar touch of lemon. There is a lingering pepper to the after taste but light like the entire beer.

Light on the mouth with a zesty, crisp carbonation that isn't over bearing.  Doesn't really dry the palate as I thought it would, albeit slightly.

This is a solid beer for how light it is.  There is enough going on to appreciate what they put in such a "tiny" beer.  I haven't had a ton of RR beers, but what I have are outstanding.  The quest continues for more.  Enjoy!

Pours crystal clear with a third of a glass of pristine, white foam.  Retention is really nice, slowly becoming frothy.  Not much lacing.

Aroma is full of hops.  Pine hops with citrus and grassy hops adding extra notes.  Very light malt scent that consists of bread and a bit of sweet.

Taste is sweet and bread malt.  The bread malt lasts throughout but both are subtle.  Hops in the middle to the end, which is more behind the malt and not as forward as it was on the sniffer.

Light in the mouth with average but zippy carbonation.  Crisp.

A solid beer that is crisp and refreshing.  Now that I have had it, I will keep it on the list for next summer.  The ABV makes this a prime suspect for sessions to help rehabilitate after mowing the lawn on a hot, humid day in July.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with an ample, two inch, thick, off-white foam.  As it recedes quite nicely, the foam becomes much frothier and thick.  Lacing is there and spotty.

Aroma is a little soft.  Sweet caramel malt, maybe even a bit of toffee and bread.  A bit of floral hops.

Taste follows the aroma.  Caramel, sweet, and some bread malt.  The hops doesn't seem to be there but there is a small hit of bitter.

Body is light end of medium with a zesty, crisp carbonation.  Seems a little watered down almost.

Definitely not a beer to have after you have switched for the season to big beers.  Nonetheless it is an easy drinking, crisp beer that would be better suited for the cool months.  I would have it again but there are a lot of beers I would want in front of it.  Enjoy!

Pours a cloudy straw color with a nice one inch head.  Low retention with very little lacing.

Aroma is mostly wheat with a bit of lemon.

Taste is very good.  A nice balance between the wheat and the light citrus.  Fairly simple beer, but very satisfying.

Mouth feel is light with medium to high carbonation. An easy drinking beer.  Goes down smooth and silky.

Overall I really enjoyed this beer.  It is not very complex, but I think I am enjoying the simplicity of it.  It's just a good beer!

Pours a nice amber color with a half inch white thick frothy head.  Great retention on the head.

The aroma is nice.  Sweet malts, caramel, and bready notes blend together to make a very pleasant aroma.

The taste start with sweet malts with caramel and works into a light floral hop flavor with a toasted bready malt finish.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Very drinkable.

Overall, a very nice beer.  Maintains a true to style nature, but is rich and full flavored with a nice balance between the sweet malts and the hops.  A very good Octoberfest beer! Try one!

Pours clear with a half glass of off-white foam.  Retention is about right with a little thickness added to the foam as it recedes.  Not really any lacing.

Aroma is sweet, caramel malt.  A touch of fruity, floral, and lemon grass that seem to come from hops.  Subtle.

Taste seems to follow.  Light up front without much of anything happening.  Caramel malt comes in the middle with a splash of hops to ride it out and balance.  There is a hint of bitterness very late in the after taste.

Light body with a medium carbonation to give it a bit of a bite.

Too little of a beer for me.  It is a definite for sessioning, is refreshing, and easy to drink, just don't expect to be over whelmed.  I would have it again but would search others out first.  Enjoy!

Pours clear and slightly opaque.  Half of glass of light brown, thickly packed foam coats the beer.  Retention is really good, seemingly condensing from the bottom up.  Sticky lacing throughout.

Aroma comes out as it warms up a bit in spite of being left out for 30 minutes before opening.  Roasted malt is hidden behind a sweet and floral front.  Roasted malt draws you into the beer giving it a very nice characteristic.  Spice?  We ain't got no stinken' spices.

Taste starts sweet with a floral, almost light fruitiness to the middle.  Finishes bitter with it linger along with counterparts in roasted malt,

Medium bodied with about an average amount of carbonation turned up a half notch.  Syrupy might be too much.

Interesting beer for the season in that there seems to be no spices at all.  Maybe some pepper in the finish but is that because of the type of hop used?  Not much of a seasonal winter beers.  In spite of this of this not being spicey, there is something to it that doesn't allow me to warm up to it.  I would have another but I would really try to hard to find something else first.  Enjoy!

Bottled on date 11-05-10.

 Blackhole in deep space. Brownish tan ring of small bubbles around my snifter, that's it.

 Immediate response is raisins and prunes. Then after a pause the vanilla emerges along with molasses notes, then it hits me that a big bourbon aroma is fuming all around my glass.

 I use the term complexity and blend way too much. But, this BCVS might be the BEST brew I've ever had.  Perfect molasses sweetness, quickly followed by vanilla excellence, then a rush of taste sensations of rich bourbon and Columbian coffee and dark fruits. Mouthfeel, carbonation, and alcohol are all in perfect portions and perception.

 This brew is an example of brewing perfection. It's a huge in taste and alcohol, but still very drinkable and enticing. I can't overstate the high level of complexity while still being perfectly balanced in absolutely every way. Special recognition to Goose Island for not being greedy. My liquor store had a strict reservation system, and said they could of sold a thousand bottles. At $13 a bottle this brew is a steal. No question in my mind, the best brew I've had this year. What's amazing is how drinkable the brew is right now, even with the big abv. The only question is how long can I resist my last bottle.

 Reddish,Orange Amber that's a tad murky. Tan, thin foam head.

 Very unique blend of orange and malt sweet. Kind of reminds me of a candy store smell.

 Sweet, spicy, orange citrus, and alcohol. Low to medium mouthfeel, and low side of carbonation.  A little to far to syrupy side for consuming much of this in one sitting. Not sure I've had many wheatwine.  And the 11.7% abv is huge.

 Totally unique, unlike very few beers. Very sweet and somewhat of an liquor aftertaste, loses points on balance and drinkability. But. I give it mucho pints for style.

 Rich mahogany brown. Normal tan foam head of medium

 Burnt molasses, slightly smoked malt, and some cocoa coffee.

 Coffee, dark bakers chocolate. A medium mouthfeel, but finishes thinner and drier than I'd have guessed this stout would be.

 Overall, very good flavors. And original composition in terms of overall experience. I love the rich creamy texture, combined with the dark sweets and bitters. The flavor notes in this brew are all favorites of mine, so I definately give it two thumbs up.

Pours a nice deep golden color with a nice two inch head.  Head dissipates slowly and leaves a thin layer of foam floating of top during the time that I am drinking this beer.

Aroma is sweet and hoppy with a hint of vanilla.

Taste is big in sweet caramel malt upfront with a nice citrus hop on the backend.  Finished dry with a bit of bitterness.

Light to medium body with light carbonation.

Overall this is a nice beer.  I don't usually have this style and I am really enjoying it.  Nice well balanced beer with a great hop profile. Try one......or two!

Pours a nice amber color. Mellow lacing.
Lots of rich hops in the aroma.  The aroma on this beer is intoxicating.  Pine!!
Lot of rich flavor in this beer.  Wonderful pine hop flavors with a well balanced malt flavors.

Aroma.  Coffee, chocolate, roasted, almost burntish.  The aroma is very "Smorish".  On aroma, they got smore right.  Flavor, coffeeish more towards burnish than roasted.  Chocolate.  Smooth, slightly watery almost thinnish.  Dry.  I'm surprised how much I liked this beer.

Pours opaque with half glass of small bubbled, tightly packed brown foam. Large bubbles pop on top as it thickens and recedes nicely. Thick but juicy the lacing is abundant.

Aroma is all about the malt as there are no hops that are noticeable.   Roasted scents emerge first while coffee comes on subtlety.

Taste is more of the same.  Roasted and coffee are accented by a sweetness and cream in the finish.

Medium body and mild carbonation that barely pops hen opening the can.

My first beer brewed in South Dakota. I couldn't be more satisfied.  Not ground breaking but very good. I hope that I can try more.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with a couple inches of white, wispy foam.  Retention is average with no lacing.

Aroma bursts with citrus and floral hops notes.  Some spice is behind those initial scents.  A backbone of sweet malt can be detected.  Not a big sniffer but pleasant.

Taste is malt sweet up front, mellowing throughout.  Citrus and floral hops take the mid while spice hops hits late and lingers.

Moderate body with medium carbonation.  Surprisingly almost chewy at times.

Tantalizes the senses with the goodness of the hops and malts but just not enough.  Both are a little light, just a touch bolder would increase the experience ten fold.  Still a quality offering that is easy to drink and partake on hot/humid nights.  Enjoy!

Pours crystal clear with a half inch of white foam.  Retention, for such a small amount, is above average.  Lacing coats but is spotty in long-term staying power.

Aroma of citrus, floral, and earth hops.  Bread and biscuit malts come up behind to give some legs.

Taste is citrus,  spicy, and floral hops up front.  Transitioning to hop dankness (earthiness) along with bread, biscuit, and caramel malts, lasting through to the finish.  There, it is joined by a chorus of citrus hops, grapefruit oriented, that lend heaps of bitterness.

Light end of medium body with medium carbonation.  Slightly drying but keeps enough juices flowing.

A solid offering, especially for the price.  Maybe a touch too much bitterness and too high of alcohol to have more than one.  Enjoy!

Look, hazy translucent dark orange.

Aroma, sweet in front, hint of apricot???, bread in background- earthy.  I would say no discernible hop aroma.  The aroma is grain, and yeast.  An IPA should have hop aroma.

Taste:  In conflict.  There is a hint of Belgium in the background.  A hint, of that farmhouse flavor that I personally love.  It's timidly there, so it's not enough of it- or if your not a fan, it's to much.  It's like they wanted to dabble with Belgians but were afraid to commit.

The hops are described as American.  I would call them classic American- not the new proprietaries.  Again, they are used... pensively.  The origin of the style was big hops to survive the voyage to India.  I would not call these big hops.  I would call this some hops used to hit style parameters.

It's as if these guys were afraid to commit to one thing.  A little American hops, a little Belgium yeast, a little of this and a little of that, and the entire thing is lost.  It isn't a bad beer in the sense that it's terrible.  It's lost.  It's not anything.

The hops don't compliment the yeast, which doesn't compliment the grain.  It's reluctant on every level, if they brewers had even just gone over board on thing I could say, well I can taste this one thing.  It's a lost beer.  It makes me sad.

Had this tonight on tap at the Tap House in Oswego.

Served in a short stemmed Imperial Stout snifter.  Black in color with hints of ruby red around the edges. A  half inch khaki colored head rests on top and resides quickly leaving a thin ring of foam around the edges of the glass.

The aroma is a surprise! It actual smells just like creme brulee!  Toffee, sweet malts, and burnt sugars.  Amazing aromas on this beer.

The taste follows the aroma but is not as bold.  Toasted malts, caramel and toffee, lactose, burnt sugars blend together to create an amazing creme brulee flavor.  The flavors work into the finish adding a hop bitterness which creates a really nice balance to the sweetness.  No alcohol noticeable with a 9.6 abv.

Heavy body with light to medium carbonation.  Creamy and smooth on the palate with sweet sticky feel on the lips.

Overall, a really impressive dessert beer!  The flavors and aroma are bold fresh and amazingly similar to a creme brulee dessert.  Very impressive!  Very sweet and heavy making it hard to have more than one, but makes a great after dinner beer.  If you have a sweet tooth, put this one on your must try list!

Pours a clear golden amber color with a half inch fluffy cloud like white head.  Great retention on the head.  Tons of thick sticky lacing sheet down the sides of the glass.

The aroma is nice with a sweetness noticeable right away.  A grapefruit citrus hoppy aroma blended with a  sweet malt that is somewhat grainy.

The taste follows the nose with a grapefruit citrus and some pine hops along side a healthy dose of sweet caramel malts.  A fairly bold bitterness is present on the finish along side a light sweetness lingering on the palate.  Some warmth from the higher abv is noticeable.

Medium body with a light to medium carbonation.  Creamy smooth mouth feel with a dryness on the palate.

Overall, a nice IPA.  Great balance between bitter and sweet with some nice hopped up flavors.  A solid IPA that I would have again and is worth a try if you enjoy this style.  Try one!

 Pure gold with a very slight haze. Thick meringue like foam, soft and delicate like a french pastry, almost pure white color.

 Grassy, fruity, and light piney are my initial reaction. The fruit is citrus, maybe tangerine. A very faint toastiness in the background. Very well mannered and balanced. It's drawing me in, got to taste it now.

 Wow, really nice. First comes the tangerine citrus with light floral notes. Almost no sweetness, except maybe in a way certain breads are slightly sweet. A sharp and crisp beer. It's a mix of light to medium mouthfeel, and no issues with the carbonation.

 Super pysch-ed this beer has come to Chicago. Big Scot has a great trading partner who lives in Maine, so I've had a few Maine Bee Co brews and they have all been SOLID. I love clear date stamping on the bottle and the additional recommendation of number of days to best enough the beer by. Purchased on 11/2, bot said drink within 32-days of 10/22. Everything is correct with this pale ale. Love the flavors of citrus and pine, with the additional notes of spice and/or herbal and/or floral. The 6% abv is perfect and in the right portion with a 17-oz bottle. And it's a clean and refreshing beer to drink. I know this statement might be challenging, but I had a fresh Pliny the Elder a week ago, and I think the brews from Maine BC are on par with the WC powerhouse.

Pours clear with a couple of inches of pure white, pillow-like foam that has average staying.  Lacing is thin but sticks in spite of itself.

Aroma has spice, esters, and a candy sweat side.  Grape and yeast add complimentary scents.

Taste is sweet and banana up front.  The middle leans towards the Belgian yeast with a beginning of spice.  The end carries the spice adding grape to round out into the finish.  Alcohol hits late too.

Medium body with an above average amount of carbonation.  Dries the palate slightly.

Not a bad Saison, possibly a bit too sweet and a touch high on the alcohol side.  Outside of these distractors, the aroma and taste are quite nice.  Beef up the attenuation to dry out the sweetness and this becomes a home run.

Pours a touch cloudy, which shouldn't be there for the style.  A half inch of foam is white, doesn't hang out or leave any lacing.

Aroma doesn't bring much.  Pils malt, cream corn, sweet, and a dusting of floral hops.

Taste is grainy pilsner malt.  Corn makes up a big part of that flavor.  Mildly sweet with floral hops, not much, if any, bitterness, and maybe hints of some fruitiness.

Light body as is the carbonation.

The cream corn and diacytel bug the crap out of me.  This is an okay beer, which could be optimistic.  Enjoy!

Pours with a haze.  Half inch of densely packed off_white foam.  Retention is a bit faster than expected with an occasional dot of lacing.

Aroma is loaded with lots of caramel malt only outdone by the wonderful metallic scents.

Taste is sweet, caramel.  No bitterness to notice.  Buttery and light metallic flavors round it out.  Some stickiness that hangs on the lips.

Low end of medium body with a medium carbonation.

The metallic aroma and flavor ruined this beer for me early and quickly.  Down the drain, as I have done with the other Minhas beers.  Enjoy!

Pours a cloudy straw color with a huge frothy white head.  I had to wait a few minutes for the head to settle to finish the pour.  Great retention on the two finger lemon meringue type head. Lots of thick lacing clings to the sides of the glass.

The aroma is what you would expect from a Belgian style Saison.  A yeast aroma mixed with a sweet citrus lemon type aroma.

The taste is lemon citrus and yeast with fruit and a grassy hop crispness showing up near the finish.  A light banana mixed with a spicy clove finishes things off and leaves a tart spicy zing on the palate.

Light body with a higher carbonation.  A slightly grainy mouthfeel with a prickly highly carbonated feel.  A slight dryness in the finish.

Overall, a very impressive Saison beer.  Awesome level of complexity that is nicely balanced and very drinkable. If you enjoy this style beer, this one is a must try! Ommegang shows their skills with this brew! Try one!

2011 Vintage

Pours a hazy medium amber color with a orange type glow.  The head is lively and requires time to let it settle before finishing the pour.  The light tan head dissipates quickly leaving a thin milky swirl floating on top.

The aroma has a sour tartness with  raspberries, cherry's, yeast and a bit of wood type scents.  A farmhouse style funk wraps around the entire aroma.  A very nice aroma that is bold and inviting.

The taste is very similar to the aroma with tart raspberry and cherries being the big flavors noticeable at first.  Yeast and earthy flavors mingle with the tartness along with a light wood flavor.  Tart on the finish and in the aftertaste.

Light body with high carbonation.  Very drinkable with a crispness from the high level of carbonation.

Overall, a very enjoyable fruit Belgian style beer from Goose Island.  A very nice sour with well rounded flavors and a crisp clean very drinkable personality.  Try one!

Pours black with a thin tan head that quickly melts into a swirl of foam floating on top and clingy to the sides of the glass.  Some watery lacing.

The aroma is complex and different but very pleasing.  A mixture of vanilla, orange, sweet molasses, and a hint of smoke hiding underneath.

The taste is just as interesting and complex as the aroma.  Starts with a milky sweetness that works into a mix of vanilla, a bit of orange and dark smoked malts with a slightly bitter dark chocolate finish.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  A milky smooth mouth feel, while also having a bit of a watery feel to it.  Slightly dry on the finish with a sticky sweetness on the lips.

A very impressive beer.  I like it a lot and I can't say that I have ever had anything like it. A very unique combination of aromas and flavors making if intriguing and interesting.  The unique characters of this beer make it hard to describe and makes me keep coming back for a sip.  A very cool beer that is worth a try!

 Rich appearance, almost black brown. Catch a flash of ruby red in the right light. Light brown foam of average retention.

 Licorice, maybe a little prune. The roasted malt shows up as toast.

 Chocolate, licorice, and molasses in moderation. The wheat make it much less thick than the average stout. And, the brewers use of a german yeast adds some additional flavor, don't know if it's banana and clove or not. The carbonation is moderate.

 Like this brew, it's definately original, being a wheat stout. The flavors are hard to peg, but pronounced and balanced. Probably the best characteristic is the drinkability.

Pours clear as is expected from a lager.  Half-inch of white, frothy foam  covers the top.  Retention is good, especially for the amount.  Lacing follows the drink up and down with each taste.

Aroma is caramel and mostly toasted malt.  A spice hop is there to balance.  Not much on the sniffer.

Taste is about as straight forward as the arom sweet up front with toasted malt that lasts and lingers.  A slight clean, spice hop flavor comes through on the finish too.

Medium body with a crisp finishing carbonation.

A solid beer that does nothing to really invigorate the consumer to believe they really went out their way to make something special.  It is an average beer that is nice but nothing more.  Could sit back with a couple of these but probably wouldn't as I would want something a little more fulfilling.  Enjoy!

Pours a clear amber brown color with frothy two finger white head.  Good retention on the head with thick sticky lacing starting before the first sip.

The aroma is a blend of sweet malt and rye with a spice character along side a light citrus hop.

The taste is interesting and not what I was expecting. It took me a few sips on this beer before my palate was acclimated to the flavors and the bitterness.  Starts with a sweet caramel malt and works into a blend of rye and bitter citrus grapefruit hops.  In the finish I notice some citrus orange and a light peppery spice. A nice bitterness and malty aftertaste.

Light to medium body with a medium carbonation.  Very drinkable.

A nice offering from Sierra Nevada.  Refreshing and different with a very drinkable character.  Once my palate was acclimated to the bitterness, I found this beer very enjoyable and tasty.  The rye adds that little something extra to this beer making it standout in the crowded world of IPA's.  Try one!

Pours a clear ruby brown color with a one inch khaki colored head.  Good retention on the head with spotty lacing.

The aroma is sweet and malty with with hints of caramel and toffee and a bit of spicy cinnamon.

The taste is malty and sweet with caramel and toffee flavors hints of vanilla and a fairly big cinnamon flavor on the finish.  The cinnamon spice tends to linger in the aftertaste.

Light body with light to medium carbonation.  Watery and smooth on the palate.  Some dryness on the finish.

Overall, not bad.  Fun and interesting beer.  Flavors are good, but seem a little fake like a flavoring extract was used.  If you like a sweet beer with a unique style give this one a try.

Short Rating
Arom 4 (22%)
Taste: 3 (40%)
Look: 8 (10%)
Drinkability: 2 (28%)
Overall: 3.4

Pours a nice amber brown color with creamy white one inch head.  Head dissipates quickly leaving a thin layer of foam on top.  Average  lacing.

Aroma is mostly malt with a slight sweetness. Maybe caramel or toffee.

Taste is mostly malts.  I also get a bit of a breadiness off this beer.  malts seem to be semi- sweet, caramel or toffee. Fairly simple and straight forward.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Smooth and creamy on the palate.

A fairly simple straight forward beer, but yet very drinkable and enjoyable.  Goes down easy and has a nice flavor.

Pours a nice brown color with a one inch creamy white head.  Head dissipates quickly leaving a thin layer of white foam on top.  Spotty lacing.

Aroma is sweet with a malty, nut type character.  I am also getting a dark fruit like plums or raisin.

Taste is enjoyable and what I would expect from this style.  Yeast up front that works into a sweet malt with a nut flavor.  Finishes with a dry slight bitterness  on the palate.

Light body with high carbonation.  Mouthfeel is a bit watery.

Overall a nice brown ale.  Nice flavors that are well balanced and what I would expect from this style beer.  Try one.

Pours opaque with a creamy, mocha, third of the glass foam.  Retention is average or slightly above.  Lacing is juicy and spotty.

Aroma is full of peat smoke.  The smoke is the center of this beer.  Roasted malt is there in back.  A tinge of alcohol here and there too.

Taste is a bit more complex than the aroma that I found.  Peat, smoke, wood, and ash round out a big, overall smokey flavor.  Roasted malt, chocolate and some sweetness come through with a bit of bitter bite at the end from what seemed to be spiced hops.

Big body with a good zing of carbonation.  Creamy and velvety without a stickiness in the mouth.  Alcohol really only shows up in the mouth, not on the way down.

This a big, smokey, enjoyable beer.  Not a smoke fan but this one is complex with plenty of other features adding.  It is not one dimensional.  This is my fourth Yazoo in the last few weeks, all good, but this one is the prize winner as the best.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with a huge, tan foam.  Retention is average or so with foam forming a froth.  Some spotty lacing that doesn't last.

Aroma has plenty of nutty malt with honey, caramel sweetness, and a touch of bread.

Taste follows to a 't'.  Sweet almost throughout with nuttiness that is joined by honey and caramel.  A touch of bitterness at the end balances.

Light body with about a medium carbonation.  Dries the palate a touch.

There is nothing ground shattering here.  The honey adds a nice layer along with the honey malt.  The beer is quite easy to drink and mildly refreshing.  Enjoy!

Poured clear with minimal tan foam that didn't last without much lacing at all either.

Aroma had hop resin and oak.  There was a sweet backbone bu the resinous hops and oak were most pronounced.

Taste followed the aroma.  Sweet up front giving way to resinous hops and and nice oak in the finish.  Not that bitter as my wife drank it.

Thin, a bit, with not a ton of carbonation.  The oak dries the mouth completely.

Was expecting a touch more from an IPA aged in oak.  The resinous hops made me think I was drinking an old beer but it was fresh, so maybe it was intentional.  Overall I thought the beer was good and would have it again.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 7 (22%)
Taste: 7 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 7 (28%)
Overall: 7.2

Pours clear with a couple of inches of tan foam for a top.  Retention is average with lacing that is thick but seeks the level of the liquid.

Aroma is slightly toasted up front with bread and nut scents mixing in.  Not much from the hops.  Muted overall aroma.

Taste has toasted and bread malts that have a slight roasted back end.  There is a sweetness that is there throughout but only as a minor roll.  Once again very little hops.

Light body with a medium or better carbonation.  Dries a touch late.

The low abv tells me that this beer is a session beer and it lives up to that statu easy drinking.  I just think there could a larger bouquet to take it up a notch.  Enjoy!

Pours a nice ruby brown color with a nice creamy tan one inch head.  Pretty good retention on this beer. Nice lacing.

Aroma is roasted malts, bitter coco with a hint of oak.

Taste is strong and bitter.  Lots of roasted malt, coffee and hints of smoke on the back end.

Medium body with light carbonation.

Not a bad beer.  Not super complex, but pretty tasty.  I am not a big fan of a smoky flavor in my beer, so that might be affecting my overall impression of this beer.  It's not super smoky, but I can taste it and it is a bit distracting.  Try one, maybe it will be your bag.

Poured from a 2009 bottle purchased on my FL trip.

Pours just a bit of haze (maybe chill haze).  Tan foam is barely there and run away and hides quickly.  Lacing is sheeting and thick but quickly falls back to level.

Aroma is of cherries and pleasant oak.  Of course there is a tart/sour aroma that is attached to scents.

Taste is an explosion of tart that lasts a bit but isn't over whelming.  There is a funkiness to the tart that includes a nice hit of oak.

Medium body at best with a big bubbly carbonation that is aided by a drying of the palate from the wood.

I have wanted this beer for a while as I have read good things.  It is really good and I can't wait to have it again.  I have a chance to get more but I think the price point is scaring me a way a bit.  Enjoy!

Pours clears with barely any tan foam covering the liquid.  As can be expected there isn't much to retain or lace.a

Aroma is big on roasted malt.  Chocolate notes also bubble to the top.

Taste has more roasted and chocolate.  Both really linger some.  Don't quite get much nuttiness from the beer.

Light body as the style should be with medium carbonation.

Seeing that the name has double in it, I thought this would be a bigger beer than it was.  Has some good to style characteristics but seems to be missing other.  Not bad but nothing earth shattering either.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with effervescent liquid underneath a thick, white foam hat.   Retention is outstanding with lacing that strolls back to level.

Aroma has spicey phenols, fruity esters, yeast, and sweetness/sugars.  Not overly aromatic.

Taste is sweet throughout without really any hops to balance in the finish.  Peppery with banana esters  come through strong, staying on the tongue.  Yeast plays along too.

Medium or better body with a spritzy carbonation.  Dries the palate a bit.

Nice one Dudes!  It's a winner for sure.  Pours a deep rich mahogany color with a thin milky creamy head.

Wow, this beer will make your nose have an orgasm!  Rich buttery aromas, with a hint of booziness to it.

Taste is rich and creamy.  Very Smooth with lots of warmth as it goes down.  I taste raisins or cherry, dark sugar and ends with almost a smokiness to it.

This is a great end cap for the night, your tummy will be happy and you will sleep like a baby with the higher APV.

 Really dark brown and clear. Foam head quickly disappeared.

 Malt sweet mixed with grapefruit and light pine. Lighter notes of semi-sweet bitter chocolate. Seems like it would be syrupy.

 Not sweet, more dry and clean taste. There's spice and very subtly smokey malts. The mouthfeel is perfect for the brew. There's a very good mix of flavors into a single perfect taste. After repeated tasting and it warms up a spectrum of flavs start emerging: cherry, bitter chocolate, grapefruit pith, floral spice, etc. The alcohol is totally invisible.

 Really liked this beer. Key word would be sophisticated. All the elements blend so smoothly in this brew. I don't understand the controversy about this new style. This brew is flat ass great.

From my last of four 2009 bottles.

Pours dark as night with no foam, retention, or lacing whatsoever.

Aroma is big and bol oak, vanilla, bourbon, molasses, brown sugar, and a touch of sweet.

The taste follows the aroma.  The barrel really comes through with oak, vanilla, and bourbon.  Brown sugar adds a lot of sweetness to the barrel induced elixir.

Big body with nary a spot of carbonation.  Perfect.

The beer has aged beautifully over the last two years.  Wish I had more to continue to see the beer evolve.  Looking forward to getting my hands on a few more ing the future.  Darn tasty.  Enjoy!

From a bottle dated March, 2011, batch 2, 1170 bottles.

Pours clear  and effervescent.  Foam is a third of a glass of light tan, thickness.  The foam slightly froths up as it recedes leaving no real traces.

Aroma is Belgian yeast with a twist of pepper.  A dark fruit, probably a plum, cuts in late.  Sweetness if evident too.

Taste is similar.  Yeast, pepper, and dark fruits dominate.  Sweetness and dark fruits build towards the end where a big hit of spice (pepper) hits and lingers.

Medium body or bigger as this is thick.  Carbonation is mild.

I just couldn't get into this beer.  The finish is really strange, lingering much longer and with a flavor profile that wasn't happy to the palate.  Enjoy!

Pours a clear medium amber with a thin head that disappeared almost immediately leaving just a small swirl of foam around the edges of the glass.

Aroma is yeast and fruit.  The fruit reminds me of sweet tart cherries.  A bit of floral coming out as well.

The first sip of this beer and I am a bit disappointed.  A nice flavor, but very mild compared to the aroma.  I am again getting the tart sweet cherry or apple flavors mixed with a light spice and a floral finish on the palate.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Watery and slightly dry on the finish.

Overall I like this beer, but wish that the flavor had a more robust character similar to the aroma.  I am enjoying this beer and appreciate the "different factor" in this Goose Island brew. The fruit flavors are refreshing.  Give one a try!

Pours clear with a half glass of full, off-white foam.  Retention is about average with the foam seeping back to level quite quickly with each sip.

Aroma is malt forward with sweet malt being foremost, bread too.  Citrus and floral scents follow along with a honey.

Taste is similar malt profile of sweet and slight bread.  End has some citrus bite to it.  The middle has a note that carries into the finish and last, almost taking over, but I don't know what it is (jasmine?).

Light body, maybe medium at best.  Medium carbonation.

Interesting beer as I think the jasmine was the "different" flavor and aroma I was getting.  Unbalanced as I don't know if everything sets up well together.  Enjoy!

Pours an amber copper color with a quarter inch creamy yellow head.  Nice retention on this beer.  Nice lacing.

Aroma is sweet and malty.  Citrus and malts and bread.

Wow.....big blast of bitter hops hits me on the first sip.  After getting past the bitter bite I am realizing that this beer starts out sweet and malty with bread and rye and works into a citrus hop. Finishes with a dry pine hop.

Medium body with light carbonation.  Mouth feel is creamy and smooth.

Overall a pretty good beer.  The malts and the hops seem pretty well balanced and makes for a pretty easy drinking  beer.  The bitter is a little bit on the strong side, but after a few sips I get used to it.  Enjoyable and different.  Try one!

Pours clear with a couple of inches of thick and off-white foam, worn like a nice cap.  Retention is above average with no lacing left that doesn't retrace it's steps back to level.

Aroma is sweet malt foremost.  Dark fruits highlight while alcohol tingles a bit late.   Buttery and/or butterscotch hints too but this might be based on temperate to begin.  Will revisit.

Taste is full of lots of sweet malt throughout.  Developing dark fruits start in the middle, culminating in the finish lead by cherry.  As I continue to drink the thick sweetness almost makes me pucker.

Medium body at best with a medium or so zip.  Dries the lips and palate.

This is so damn sweet I almost think they let some of their soda drop into it.  It is almost like a dark cherry soda.  Has some good points but this on the verge of a cloying mess.  I would have it again but there is so much more in front of it.  Enjoy!

Pours a hazy pale golden color with a white head.  Head dissipates quickly leaving a thin layer on top.  Nice lacing.

Aroma is a bit odd to me.  I can't figure out what I smell.  I am guessing here, but I think I am getting wheat, a bready yeast and some type of spice.

Taste is not what I was expecting since the aroma was a little odd.  This beer has a traditional wheat beer taste with some nice extras.  Starts out clean, works into a bready, malt flavor and finishes with a sweet floral flavor and a bit of lemon and spice.  A little bit of hops shines through at the tail end giving it a slight bitterness.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Well balanced with a sweeter character.

Overall a pretty good beer.  I am enjoying the complexity of this beer.  Very tasty and an easy drinker.  The aroma is the only negative about this beer, but it does not ruin it of me.  An enjoyable wheat that I will have again.

Pours a dark ruby brown with a dense tan colored head.  Great retention on the head, with lots of thick spotty lacing.

Aroma is deep dark and rich.  Lots of roasted malts, coffee and coco aromas and has a sweet slightly bitter scent.

Taste is dark roasted malts up front and works into a sweet coffee and chocolate blend with a hop profile hiding a bit behind all of the dark flavors.  A bit of smoke flavor on the tail end.  A very slight bit of bitterness in the finish.  Extremely well balanced and smooth.

Heavy body with medium carbonation.  Very drinkable for a heavy beer like this.  Milky and smooth on the palate.

A big thumbs up on this beer.  It's rich bold character and balance, puts this one in the top notch category.  Very drinkable for a dark heavy beer.  This one is going to stay on my favorite list!

From 2010 bottle.

Pours opaque with a two inch deep tan and mocha swirled foam that quickly runs away without any lacing until the dank liquid is left naked without any protection.

Aroma is muted compared to what was expected but the age could have a roll to play there.   Roasted malt, a touch of deep cherry, and a dash of bitter coffee.

Taste is up front and in the finish while the middle suffers.  Roasted malt to start with,  a "strange" middle, and an end that brings up the coffee a some bitter.  The coffee lingers.  There is a coating that probably comes from the oats.

A bit thin in the mouth with not much carbonation.

The eighteen months of sitting in my cellar didn't help this beer one bit.  The aroma and body of this beer are lacking.  The taste is okay but it along with the aroma has a strange part that is hard to place.  Enjoy!

Pours a slightly hazy golden color with a thin white head.  Head dissipates after a few minutes leaving a thin swirl of foam resting on top of the beer.  Spotty web like lacing.

The aroma is big and bold.  Citrus hops are the main player with a pine hop present as well.  A caramel malt is noticeable as well which I suspect is what gives this beer a sweet scent.

The taste is amazing.  Starts with a caramel bready malt and works into a rich citrus hop flavor and then finishes with a spicy pine hop and a slightly bitter finish.  The hops are complex on this beer, citrus is the first thing that comes to mind, but the more I taste it I can detect tropical fruits like mangos and even orange.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  A creamy smooth mouth feel with a slight oily character.  The finish is slightly bitter with a prickly sharpness.

Overall I am really impressed with this beer.  This beer sets the standard for perfectly balanced beers and this one could not get any more balanced.  The aroma, taste and mouth feel are perfect and makes for a very easy drinking beer which is unusual for a beer with such a high abv.  If your a hop junkie, put this on your must try list!

Bottled on 2010-11-04.

Pours clear with minimal pink white foam that runs away immediately.  Lacing doesn't exist.

Aroma is subtle, interesting, and complex.  Raspberries lead the way while barnyard tartness and hay are tucked neatly behind.

Taste is very acidic, hay, and a touch of lemon.  The middle brings in a touch of raspberry.  The hay seems to last the entire taste, even into the finish, while the end mellows.

Light body with a very high, spritzy carbonation.  Dries the palate immediately and thoroughly.

Wow, this is really nice beer.  Lambic fans will probably want to find a way to get their hands on this very limited release.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque with a half glass, deep tan foam that doesn't want to settle, especially as it thickens up as it does.  Lacing is web like in appearance.

Aroma is sweet, maple, and brown sugar.  Did I say sweet.  Roasted malt and maybe chocolate.

The taste is much more complex than the nose.  The sweetness is there but other flavors muddle it's strength and one sidedness in the nose.  Roasted malt, chocolate, and rye spice all tingle the sense.  Oak and maybe coffee find their way too.

Big body with a medium carbonation with a drying palate in spite of a sense of creaminess to the beer.

The big alcohol is well hidden behind the nice, complex flavors.    The aroma set me up for a let down but the taste delivers.  Darn tasty.  Enjoy!

Another cool label.  I am not a tree hugger, but I always enjoy seeing a tree with character, weathered and worn, twisted and crooked, trees like this have something special.....just like this beer.

Pours a hazy deep gold, with a nice one inch head. Medium retention, with nice lacing.

Aroma is sweet with citrus hops and maybe a hint of grapefruit.  Very pleasant.

Taste is sweet at first and works its way into a hopppy citrus with a bit of bitterness that reminds me of eating grapefruit.  Nice malt on the back end that gives this beer a perfect balance.

Really solid beer here.  Very refreshing and enjoyable.  Love the balance between the citrus hops and the malts.  It's a winner!

Pours a muddy looking brown color with a half finger cream white head.  Good retention on the head.  Thick globbing lacing.

Aroma is mild but has some nice things to offer.  I am getting a sweet malt, a touch of caramel and a bit of smoke and dark fruits.

Taste is big and bold with lots of smoke mixed with dark fruits.  Sweet malts, bread, grain and some light molasses flavors dance around the palate on this beer.

Medium body with light carbonation.  Mouth feel is creamy and smooth, but leaves me with a sweet stickiness in the after taste.

Overall, an interesting beer with a nice level of complexity.  It's not an every day beer for me but I enjoyed this one and give it a thumbs up for creativity.  Good drink ability for a beer that has a higher abv. Worth a try!

 Nice clear, deep gold. Small bubble, off-white foam head.

 Grapefruit, biscuity, and grassy. Fresh is the one word description that comes to mind.

 A quick, bright blend of hop citrus, light malt sweet, and a very soft hop tinge. And a very refreshing mouthfeel.

 Very drinkable, and I keep using fresh and bright in this description, but that's what it is. Perfectly balanced, no one element sticks out. There's no way you'd guess the 7.5% abv. I drink this brew daily if I had access.

 Cider like amber, with a solid haze. Pearly, off-white thick foam with decent retention.

 Grassy or earthy upfront then some fruit scents, hard to find the citrus or pine.

 Carmel and toasted malts. Very subdued sweetness, along with a subtle hop bite. Very soft touch. Good carbonation and medium mouthfeel.

 Very drinkable. It's a reserved IPA, without any huge personality points. All flavors and attributes are in check. Not sure of the hops used, but my taste could use a little more citrus profile.  But don't get me wrong I could drink this anytime. Solid brew.

Arom  Smells great!  Smells floral hoppy, citrusy, slightly sweet, clean crisp.

Look:  Light amber with golden hues.  Thin even head, nice bubbles, medium carbonation.

Taste:  Pretty interesting.  Hop forward, very flavorful, nice bitterness, lingers, but isn't... a bitter burn.  Malts are light to bring the hops forward.  It's great.  Were talking about how it compares to Hopslam, that's a compliment-right.  I'm totally digging it.

 Medium to deep Brown with a slight red tint and there's a slight haze. Foam head is beige and soft, that fades fairly quickly.

 Brown sugar, vanilla, maple, and molasses. the breadiness underneath and then a whiff of booze stops this brew from being some weird sugar bomb.

 Rather drinkable for all this beer could turn into. It's not overly sweet, maybe the 50 ibus mute with a stealthiness. But flavors abound and each sip reveals new twists into the dark sweetness not from sugars but more rural/traditional sources of sweetness spectrum.

 I've spent some time in the woods, and I would be extremely happy to have a solid supply of this brew in a cabin as I faced the onslaught of the impending white fury of early winter in the northern great lakes region. It brings warmth and earthy fullness that fits this time of year. No wonder this brew has been increasing hard to get each Fall as it is released. One of the best fall beers for cold climates.

Merry Christmas 2011!

Pours black with a very slight hint of ruby red as I hold it up to the light.  A nice one inch tan foam head settles into a thin layer of foam resting on top.  Lacing sheets down the side of the glass.

Aroma is big on fresh pine hops as well as chocolate and roasted malts.  The pine hops are the strongest aroma with the roasted malts and chocolate helping to balance the aroma.

Taste is rich and bold.  Big bold roasted malts, chocolate, coffee and a nice bold pine and citrus hop.  I detect a bit of grapefruit in the citrus flavors as well.  Finishes with a nice blast of citrus and pine hops on the backend with a slight bitterness.

Medium body and medium carbonation.  Creamy on the palate with a slightly bitter pine/citrus aftertaste.

Overall I really like this beer.  Nice complex flavors and aromas that are well balanced, bold, and rich!  I have been saving this one for Christmas, as I had it last year on Christmas and remembered it as the perfect Christmas beer.  An awesome porter with a nice hop kick with that makes it fun and unique.  Try one!  Merry Christmas!

A pour into my snifter was opaque with minimal brown foam.  Retention was even less while there was some spotty lacing.

Aroma makes the taste buds water.  Vanilla, oak, slight bourbon, molasses, dark fruit (cherries), and maybe a touch of cherry.  Complex.

Taste  is big too.  Vanilla, oak, and dark fruits swirl together until the bourbon/brandy and molasses add to the mix.  The finish brings more oak, earth, and ash type of flavors.  Each flavor seems to have its day in the sun.  A touch of tartness is present in the end too.

Big mouth feel with minimal carbonation on top of a creamy feel.

Very little alcohol presence in spite of the big ABV which lends to the drinkability.  The complex flavors and aromas are well blended into a very good drinking experience.  This is the second of three bottles.  The first two have been wonderful, time for the third to sit for a while.  Enjoy!

Pour fairly clear with a partial haze (not a chill haze as it was at good serving temperature).  Frothy, light tan foam filled almost have the glass.  Retreated nicely, creating pock marks as it did so.

Aroma is malt forward, a little more than expected.  Roasted, bread, and toasted malt titillate the senses.  Fruity hops (?) but that might be a stretch.

Taste is bitter up front, sometimes lasting, sometimes giving away to a muted middle that livens up in the en bread and toasted malt with another round of citrus bitterness.  Very late in the finish the beer gives a nice warming sensation to the tummy.  After a while the hop bitterness tends to stay with you.

Medium bodied with about the same amount of carbonation.

The hop bite in the end is more reminiscent of American IPAs while the malt backbone definitely holds up the English roots.  Almost like a cross breed of a beer.  I have to say this style isn't my favorite but this beer makes me darn happy.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque with an inch of mocha colored foam.  Retention is minor.  Lacing is sporadic but thick where it lands.

Aroma of chocolate, roast, and sweet.  As it warms smoke aroma

Taste is chocolate and roast.  The finish comes across as dry, almost ashy. Black patent?  Even smoky, maybe, but very dry.

Medium body with a complimentary carbonation.  A bit too dry for a milk stout.

Not one of the best attempts from an usually spot on Half Acre.  A milk stout is hard to make fancy and, for me, smoke doesn't make a beer beer better.  Enjoy!

Put on a helmate! This beer is a wild ride. I like big beers and this fits the bill. I love the hops and how they interact with the more subtle malts in this beer. It grabs your palet and chokes it out in a head locck! If you are not looking for a beer that is over the top in just about every way it can be, then beware. If you are, your next stop on the great beer trail is at Arrogant Bastard Ale.

Pours opaque with half a glass of beautiful, brown foam.  Retention is above average with the foam lightening in color and becoming frothy.  Sporadic lacing leaving some sticky, thin foam behind.

Aroma is roasted malt and molasses.  Chocolate and coffee with some earth hops.  Quite nice.

Taste follows the nose.  Dark malt roasted, chocolate, and coffee.  The chocolate is a bit bitter, so dark chocolate.  The roasted is predominant but not over whelming.

Big body with light carbonation that actually leaves your palate moist.

I am a fan of stouts and this is a solid showing for the style.  All the things you look for are there along with a nice balance of complexities.  I wish I had more of these as they are nice drinking and smooth for a dark beer.  Enjoy!

Pours a nice medium amber color that has a hint of orange to it.  Nice two inch off white head that thick and foamy.  Good retention on the head with thick foamy lacing.

Aroma is very pleasant.  I am getting a citrus hop along with a grain or bready aroma.  Has an earthiness to it with a hint of floral.

Taste is clean and refreshing.  Has a bit of a mellow start that works into a robust citrus floral hop.  Has a nice sweetness to it.  Finishes with a mild bitterness that lingers on the palate.

Medium body with light to medium carbonation.  Sweet and sticky mouth feel.

Overall this is another solid IPA.  Well balanced, clean and refreshing.  I like it.......try one!

Pours hazy, probably chill haze form the wheat.  Nice white head that is a finger in height.  Retention is below average.  Lacing is sporadic and dotted.

Aroma is pine, grapefruit and resin.  It is all hops.  Hard to pick up any malt.

Taste is grapefruit hops up front, transitioning to resinous, dank hops that last throughout the rest of the experience.  Wheat joins up late.  Almost no bitterness or sweetness .

Medium body, maybe.  Carbonation carries the mouth feel as it spruced up.  Not as dry as expected, yet it leans to that end.

A Really nice beer.  Good balance but strange as the sweetness and bitterness are low, just lots of hop flavor and aroma.  Carbonation helps to give a light beer a nice crispness and size.  Enjoy!

A friend of mine from work picked this up for me while on vacation a few weeks ago! Thanks Jen!

Pours ruby brown in color with a big tan frothy head.  Good retention on the head with nice web like lacing.

The aroma is a big rich blast of coffee, dark chocolate and a hint of malt sweetness.

The taste is a rich malty blend of coffee and roasted malts.  Chocolate and hints of vanilla are noticeable in the finish.  Starts with with a light sweetness and finishes with a hint of coffee bitterness.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Creamy smooth mouth-feel but light at the same time, very drinkable.

Overall, an impressive beer from Surly.  Great flavors that are well balanced and enjoyable.   I am a big fan of coffee and beer and this beer nails it! Wish is it was available in my area.  A must try beer for any coffee lover!

2009 bottle.

Pours opaque with an inch of thick, brown foam.  Retention is quite good for the amount of foam.  Void where the lacing should be.

Aroma is coffee.  Molasses but probably more brown sugar comes right in behind.  A hint of chocolate adds some interest.

Taste is more of the same.  There is a sweetness that the chocolate, coffee, and coffee bitterness fight back to balance.  A lingering coffee hangs deep in the back of the mouth.

Medium body with minimal carbonation probably due to age.

A great drinker for a stout with coffee.  Enough to tingle the senses while being a light stout.  I am sure the coffee is stronger when fresh but is a good balance now.  Enjoy!

 Very nice deep gold color with a slight sheen that's topped by a soft off-white small-bubble foam-head, thats like a melting vanilla ice cream ginger ale float.

 Initally its a appetizingly appealing grapefruity blast. Underneath is a layer of soft butterscotchy malt sweetness. All served on a nice piece of biscuity toast taste.

 Perfect alignment of taste with aromas. First flavors are grapefruity, caramelish malt, and breadiness. It's on the thick side, but not in a bad way if you like that sorta thing. The 9% abv plays well in the big basic tastes of the brew, in fact the alcohol very well balances into the other elements of this well made Dble IPA.

 A really well made Third Coast IPA. It tastes like the perfect blend of citrus and honey, with a little spike of flame. And it's not a clone of anything, kind carves out it's own space. OK, it's in proximity of Hopslam. Really great brew, I just wish it wasn't so hard of a job to grab a few.

 (Note: rating not reflective of my opinion, but IE browser not working with rating slide bars. I give it a 9.0)

Pours clear with almost two fingers of off-white foam.  Retention is solid, leaving lacing as it recedes that is narrowly thick.

Aroma of deep caramel, almost borders on a barley wine.  Almost dark fruits.  Spice hops.  Faint hints of alcohol.

Taste follows the nose.  Dark, deep caramel carries from start to finish.  Spice hops lend some balance.  Not really bitter.

Thick body.  Minimal carbonation that finishes with booze.

Grabbing a DIPA makes me want hops, tons of hops.  Aroma should wack me while the flavors are full of bountiful hops.  This beer doesn't bring.  There is a chance the bottle was old, lack of date only allows me to assume.  If you want a light barley wine, this is the beer for you.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 4 (22%)
Taste: 2 (40%)
Look: 8 (10%)
Drinkability: 1 (28%)
Overall: 2.8

Pours opaque with no light penetrating the edges.  An inch of mocha colored, thick, malty foam covers.  Great retention.  Lacing begins and lasts all the way through: sticky and thick.

Aroma is the typical dark mal chocolate, roast and coffee but tons of citrus and pine, more than likely from heaping helpings of hops.

Taste more stout and hop combo.  Chocolate, roast and char, almost smokey.  Coffee and leather come in the middle.  Leather lasts through to the end.  Citrus hops are bigger than the pine but both aid the roasted malts in creating a bitterness to the finish.  Although it seems more malt centric, even having a touch of the char, ash.

Big mouth feel.  Medium carbonation.  Creamy finish that could feel more oily as the char transitions with age.

Hops and stouts go well together when done right.  This is done right.  Plenty of dark malts mingle nicely with the citrus and pine west coast hop side.  The char typically bothers me but wasn't overdone here.  Enjoy!

2012 Vintage

Pours black in color with a hint of ruby red around the edges of the glass when held up to the light.  The pour produces a quarter inch dark tan head that quickly dissipates and creates a milky swirl of foam resting on top. Very little lacing.

The aroma is strong and rich with a bitter sweetness.  Molasses, and dark coffee are the big aromas with a touch of oak and alcohol.

The taste is just as rich as the aroma.  A sweet molasses starts things off and quickly works into a blend of bitter chocolate and oak with a warming alcohol that continues into the finish.  A bitter coffee flavor finish things off with a bourbon alcohol warming the mouth and throat with a hint of dark fruit in the aftertaste.

Medium to big body with a light carbonation.  Smooth and creamy mouthfeel with a sweet almost syrup like stickiness.

Overall, another impressive beer from Central Water.  Nice dark flavors that are well balanced and inviting with a warmth from the alcohol.  This beer is perfect on a cold snowing night next to the fireplace.  Very drinkable for a beer with such dark rich flavors and a high abv.  Try one!

Short Rating
Arom 8 (22%)
Taste: 7 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 8 (28%)
Overall: 7.7

A 2009 bottle shared by Ed at TNBC.

Pours cloudy with lots of small floating particles.  Foam is really non-existent, so no retention or lacing either.

Aroma is interesting and complex.  Caramel sweetness seems to underlie a huge amount of cherries, some brett, a nice but not over whelming tartness, oak, vanilla, and bourbon.  A smorgasbord for the nose.

The taste follows the complexities found by the nose.  Cherry comes through the biggest of the tastes up front, masking caramel sweetness.  Other flavors join in the middle and end leaving a tart, oak, and bourbon finish.

Body is thick with minimal carbonation.  Dries the palate from the first sip.

I haven't a ton of wild ales but this one, at least from memory, is up there as one of the best I have ever had.  The tartness is subtle instead of destroying the palate it accents the other complexities of the beer.  This is really well done.  Enjoy!

Pours a straw yellow color with a very active fine bubbly white head.  Head dissipates quickly leaving just a thin layer of foam on top.  Very little lacing.

Aroma is light slightly sweet and tart. I am getting some lemon and a hint of peach and yeast.

Taste is sweet on the first sip.  Some sweet mild fruit type flavors as well as a bit of yeast which works into a tartness that follows into the finish.  Leaves the palate with a tartness that is dry and slightly chalky.

Light body with light to medium carbonation.  A very crisp clean beer.

Overall a pretty good beer.  It's different, but refreshing and enjoyable.  I really like the tartness on the beer.  Worth a try!

Pours a cloudy medium amber color with a two inch head.  Great retention of this beer with spotty lacing.

Aroma is a blend of citrus hops and malts.  Has a slight sweet scent.

Taste starts out with a citrus hop that is bitter.  Finishes with a bready malt that is semi-sweet.

Medium body with light carbonation.  Dry on the palate.

Enjoyable IPA.  It is well balanced between the hops and the maltly character.

Pours a cloudy amber brown with a huge off white colored head.  Head settles out after a few minutes and leaves a thin ring of foam around the edges of the glass. Very little lacing.

Aroma is amazing.  A big fresh blast of sweet tart cherry with a hint of yeast.

Taste follows the aroma.  I am getting a nice fresh sour cherry flavor that works into a bit of a tartness on the finish. This beer is on the sweet side and works well to balance the sour and tartness of the cherries.

Light body with light carbonation.  Nice smooth mouthfeel with a dryness on the finish.

Overall this beer gets two thumbs up from me.  A very tasty fruit beer!  I am a sucker for fruit beers that are sour or tart and this one has both!  Hard to beat this!  Try one!

Pours a clear deep golden color with a pure white half inch head.  Some retention on this beer as the head dissipates quickly down to a thin layer settling on top.  Very little lacing.

Aroma is mild.  I am getting some hints of grape with a honey sweetness.  Also getting a hint of spice. A bit musky.

Taste is interesting.  Dry like a white wine with a bit of warmth from the higher abv.  I get a dry white grape flavor mixed with honey. Something else is hiden in the flavor that I can't put my finger on, it might be a slight woody character.  Ends with a sweet grape and tart dryness on the palate.

Light to medium body with light carbonation.  Resembles a dry white wine.

I am enjoying this beer, but I do feel like it lacks in the complexity department.  I am glad that I tried it, but it is not a beer I would hunt down again.  Interesting, tasty and worth a try.

 Yellow but in a golden, misty, lemon colored version. Very soft, small, white bubbles which mostly dissipates quickly, except for a ring around my snifter.

 Pleasant and distinct Belgian yeast spice notes, with an Italian lemony aroma. The straw notes from wheat is attractive.

 First thoughts are how well crafted this beer is. Fresh flavors of lemons, off-set by wheat dryness, then a subtle spic. Almost zero bitterness. Medium high carbonation, but really compliments the beer. I tend not to like spice beers, it's apparent after drinking this brew, it's over spiced beers that I don't like. Here the spiciness (coriander and others?...argued on allspice) blends and enhances the experience.

 Highly drinkable, very refreshing, super balanced, and great flavors. This brew shows up on many lists of best American Craft Summer brews. I totally agree. This is one of those great brewies that I take for granted because it's well represented at good craft beer shops. I won't keep making that mistake.

 Light tan medium full foam. Smallish bubbles that last for a low normal amount of time. Muddy ruby color of the brew is good, not great.

 Not in your face aroma, but I like the notes. Pitted dark fruit and a tad of anise, and some belgian confectionary sugars.

 Big carbonation, and very light sweetness from unknown pit fruits. Surprised by the high level of carbonation, but I was a fan. Lot's of things it's no sour, funky, too spicy.

 Interestingly unique. I especially like the lively carbonation mingling with sophisticated euro fruits. More layers than some RR beers. Definately a beer everyone should have at least once.

Pours sightly cloudy (this was warm(er) so it wasn't a chill haze) as the foam rushes up to fill the glass quickly on impact.  Pristine white and light it has average retention and thickens a touch.  Lacing really doesn't really come into play.

Aroma is big on the clove aspect of the beer.  Banana, light wheat, and even some lemon grass join the parade.  The "Hefe" aromas seem to fade quickly leaving just a dry wheat.

Taste sort of follows.  Clove is there with very minor banana flavors while the wheat seems to take over.    I bit of spice/bitterness in the finish.

Light to medium body with a late medium/light carbonation that dries the palate.

This is one of my favorite styles of beer.  I think the beer doesn't quite deliver on the Hefe experience that I am expecting from the yeast, more of the yeast character comes through.  Nothing wrong it, just nothing over the top.  Enjoy!

Pours slightly hazy with a half-glass, off-white, tight foam.  Retention is really good with the foam frothing up as it goes.  Lacing is quick to surface with a sporadic, light, sticky bead

Aroma is complex.  I can't believe I said that for an IPA.  Pine hops arise first.  The second waft hit me with a white oak stick it was so up front.  Vanilla, spice, and even more woody pulp.  Truly a medley for the nose.

Taste is a bit sweet at first but quickly gives way to a wood, vanilla, and spice wonder land.  The finish starts slowly but a heap of pine, citrus hops bursts on the scene with a bit of bitterness but fades to a bit of white oak.

Surprising light on the mouth, almost too much.  Enough late carbonation to say there is just a bit more than light.  Drying.

As the base beer, well balanced but with the added twist of this nice oak layer and everything that it brings with it.  Not baggage, just goodness.  This is much more than I expected and brings thoughts of a my Dad wood working in the shop.  Really good stuff.  Enjoy!

Wow.
Sour aroma up front, with subtle fruit flavors in background.  Very inviting.
Look, nice hazy gold.

Taste: Sour, tart, complicated, smoothness from oak.  This is a great beer.  A great beer.

 Deep brown with a lightb tint of red. Light brown, soft fluffy foam head.

 Roasty malt that is encased chocolate, with faint vanilla in the background. The merge of the scents comes together in almost foodie aroma.

 Initial reaction is thin-er that I would have expected. A fast merge of light toasted malt, really light molasses. Maybe a bit of chocolate and coffee, but like everything else about this brew, it is understanded. Light mouthfeel and adequate cabonation. There are some hops, but more aromatic than bittering.

 Superb take on a stout. Very good use of vanilla, really complements this brew. A wide profile of flavors but all very muted, and well balanced.

Looking forward to trying this one.  I have not had many sours and the few that I have had have been really good.  Thanks for sharing this one Scot.

Pours a dark cloudy amber with a think quarter inch white head.  Low retention with the head dissipating quickly leaving just a think ring of white foam around the edges of the glass.  Very little lacing.

Aroma is awesome.  The sour comes out in the aroma, I am getting a sour citrus with a bit of oak mixed in.

Taste is sour on the limps and palette.  Delicious!  A nice sour apple and citrus flavor with a large oak flavor with a hint of spice on the backend. Smooth and refreshing.  Dry on the palate.

Medium body with medium to high carbonation.

Overall, I would say this is another winner in the sour world!  Very nice well balanced beer with a nice level of complexity.  Try one if you like sour beer!

 Black brown.

 Molasses, dark fruit, and alcohol. Totally unique.

 Super unique taste. It crazy, but the big molasses sweetness is totally balanced by the alcohol.

 Deserves all the hype, really great beer. Must like booze. And this one's a little green, should be awesomely awesome after a few years.

Pours opaque with a tad of mocha foam.  Retention and lacing are barely recognizable.

Aroma is coffee through and through.  That is the old time Grandma coffee ground coffee.  Dark cherry, caramel, toffee, and a touch of roast.

Taste follows the nose closely.  The coffee leaves a bitterness and grit in the finish.  Coffee and more coffee.

Medium or better body with minimal carbonation.  Dries the palate.

This is a really nice beer.  The coffee does mute the underlying stout even on a 2+ year old bottle.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque but clear on the edges.  Half glass of mocha, creamy, thick foam covers.  Retention is well above average as it comes up from the bottom.  Thick, coating, sticky foam laces the sides.

Aroma is nicely complex for a hopped up beer.  Pine resin is foremost but each sniff brings others forwar oak, mild roast, earth, and citrus.

Taste is sweet and roast up front with hops joining the middle.  Roast lingers and almost becomes a touch of debittered chocolate.  Oak, pine, and citrus hops come up strong in the end while sliding nicely into the finish.  Hops linger a bit.

Medium body with a medium carbonation on the front end but a huge helping in the back end.  Dries the palate.

This is a solid first beer from Hill Farmstead.  The balancing act of flavors and aromas is top notch.  I wish the oak was a bit more forward as I like that profile in the beer.  Enjoy!

Bottle 176/713.

Pours clear with three-quarters of a glass of white foam.  Half of the foam pops like pop rocks and disappears quickly while the last quarter takes it sweet time.  Lacing is spotty, thick, and sticky.

Aroma sweet malt with pine, citrus, and tropical fruits.  Oak and earthy scents compliment.  Other aroma is there too but I can't place it.

Taste is very similar to the taste.  Sweetness is abbreviated while hops add the same to the mouth as they did to the nose.  Earthiness is there late as well as oak that seems to last.  Agave?  Some twinges of alcohol late.  Tequila to some degree.

Light body with a late arriving carbonation.  It tries to dry with the oak but seems to be enough fruit juices to keep it in between.  There are sensations of creaminess.

A really interesting twist on a DIPA.  I really liked.  I had no trouble throwing back the entire bottle to make sure that I reviewed this on correctly.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 9 (22%)
Taste: 8 (40%)
Look: 10 (10%)
Drinkability: 8 (28%)
Overall: 8.4

Short Rating
Arom 8 (22%)
Taste: 8 (40%)
Look: 10 (10%)
Drinkability: 8 (28%)
Overall: 8.2

Short Rating
Arom 7 (22%)
Taste: 7 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 7 (28%)
Overall: 7.2

Pours clear with a brilliant, large bubbled white foam.  Retention is more fleeting than most IPAs but nonetheless hangs out for a bit.  No lacing.

Aroma is nice.  They didn't skimp on the dry hopping and/or late kettle hopping to get this kind of aroma on a "session" ipa.  Citrus and sweet, balance malt backbone.

Taste carries the sweet malt.  Not cloying, slight caramel sweetness that carries throughout reaching it's zenith in the finish to help fight off the large amount of bitterness.  Citrus hops are on the tongue throughout.

Light body as expected from this self proclaimed sessionable beer.  Spritzy but light carbonation.  The hops give a sense of juiciness while drying.

Nice beer.  The bitterness takes away from the sessionability of this beer.  Too bitter to keep going.  I would say that is the only flaw in otherwise well rounded, thirst quenching beer.  And, that is a big and, Shorts continues to put these beers out at ridiculous prices by today's standards.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 9 (22%)
Taste: 10 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 8 (28%)
Overall: 9.1

Pours clear with minimal, snow white foam.  Retention is minimal as well - not taking long before it nary coats the rest of the beer.  Lacing is thin but stretches in rings throughout.

Aroma is light sweetness that is covered quickly by hops.  Earth, spice and a touch of citrus.

Taste is more of the aroma.  It's a pale ale so not much malt to cover, leaving a touch of bitterness on the back side.  Not harsh - smooth and balanced.

Light end of medium body.  Carbonation tingles late on the front of the tongue.

I have been of the fence of Summit hops.  Michigan Summit hops pushed me over.  The earth and spice are more than the citrus which brings in thoughts of English IPAs, which I am not a fan.  Drinkability suffers because of the flavor of the hops, otherwise it would have been higher.  Enjoy!

Pours crystal clear with minimal white head.  There is absolutely no retention or lacing.  Looks like a pilsner.

Light pilsner malt gives a pleasant sweetness.  Touch of lime.  Not the typical skunk.

Taste has a bit of sweetness along with lime.  Not much else.

Light body with light carbonation.  Don't drink this unless it is warm.  A nothing beer.

Okay for a pilsner but still a pilsner.  I don't need many of them in my life to be happy.  I would have it again if nothing else was available.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 7 (22%)
Taste: 7 (40%)
Look: 8 (10%)
Drinkability: 7 (28%)
Overall: 7.1

Pours cloudy with a half inch of white foam.  Head sticks around for a bit, frothing as it recedes, leaving residue on the ping glass sides.

Aroma is solid classical Centennial hop a mix of floral and dominant citrus, leaning towards the citrus side.  Not much malt on the back end.  Calls me in for a taste.

Taste is once again hop forward but doesn't carry the hops as well as the nose.  Muted.  Light touch of sweetness/malt that reminds me of Vienna malt.  Citrus side of the hops is front and center.  Bitterness is pleasant, not over bearing.

Body is light to light-end of medium with light carbonation.

The sites down the dial slight this beer.  It isn't an in your face IPA but it is a solid balance, using classical hop profile.  A little more malt profile would help to make this beer a bit more robust but solid nonetheless.  Worth picking up.  Enjoy!

Pale amber that's perfectly clear. Very complex, thick head of off-white foam head.

  Citrus hoppy, caramel, bready, piney, but all low grade.

 First impression is high sweetness factor along with bready malt. There's a taste in the middle that I can't identfy, not horrible but out of place. Heavy or cloying mouthfeel. Slight dryness and subtle hop bite.

 It's a big brew in a style I love. My first issue was that the aroma and look didn't reflect the fact that this would be a solid DIPA. The other was that it was slightly unbalanced. Overall it was close to being a really good brew in it's style. Problem is that there's a few really great brews in the style. But, in the end it's a good brew that could just use some refining. I would definately have it again and hope the brewers improve it over time.

Poured with a chill haze.  Foam was medium bubbled and white.  Retention was about average with the foam becoming a touch frothier.  Lacing - none.

Aroma is caramel malt with a bit of resinous hops (the beer is about six months old).  There is a grainy malt hidden there too that seems to dominate at times.

Taste is caramel and grain malt with a transition of slight bitterness on the end.

Medium body with a pretty crisp carbonation that spiked the middle of the tongue.

I have to admit that I had been putting off tasting this beer for some time as the online reviews of it are not stellar.  Still, I try to give a beer a benefit of doubt.  There is no reason to, this isn't that good of a beer.  You aren't missing anything here.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with a light tan, thin foam on top.  Retention is fleeting while lacing is sporadic, thin, and sticky.

Aroma is really light, making it difficult to pick up much.  Toffee malt sweetness is about the only characteristic I can pick up.

Wow.  Nothing like I expected based on the nose.  Spices really come through on top of the toffee and toasted malt.  Cinnamon, pepper, and some butter scotch.

Medium body as there is a bit of stickiness to the malts in your mouth.  Subdued carbonation.

Not an over the top crazy winter warmer like some can be, but there is enough spice in the taste to make it hard to have more than one serving at a time.  Enjoy!

From a 2010 bottle.

Pours clear with a finger of light tan foam.  Minimal staying power.  Lacing sheets but falls back to level after sipping.

Aroma is caramel dominated by toffee sweetness, accented by budding dark fruits.  Nuttiness is here and there.  Alcohol is present only has minor note.

Taste is similar to the nose but not as robust.  Malts lead the way, lending caramel and toffee throughout.  Budding plums and figs notes add a nice layer.  Alcohol complicates, almost tingling the nose.

Full body beer that isn't cloying.  Carbonation is medium, spritzy.  Maybe too much.

Probably could become more complex with even more age.  As the beer warms, the alcohol really comes forward.  Don't feel that the malt profile is big enough to carry this beer as it ages.  Solid, but needs more flavor.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 6 (22%)
Taste: 6 (40%)
Look: 8 (10%)
Drinkability: 6 (28%)
Overall: 6.2

 Solid hazy gold with full and delicate off-white foam.

 Spiced tree fruit. The cardamon's ginger-like aroma in the most prevelant note.

 Spice and yeast come first. Then the malt sweetness kind of piles into the ginger, I'm not liking that. There are some faint yeasty notes, all spice no funk. But finally it finishes dry, I guess from the barrels. Though I don't get any of the oak tastes from the barrels. At the end more fruity (apples, grapes, ?). Thankfully the spice fades out. Not as thick as the sweetness might imply. Good amount of carbonation. Alcohol's there but masked by all the other noise in this brew.

 First in the spirit of full disclosure I am not a spice in beer guy, and only a somewhat Belgian fan. It's a very interesting mix of big flavors and I do like the taste of ginger. Considering the complexity of ingrediants this brews balance is very good. But in the end it strikes me as somewhat gimmicky.

Pours a deep mahogany amber with a nice one inch head.  Head settles out quickly leaving very little sign that it ever existed.  Lacing is minimal.

Aroma is mostly smokey with a hint of sweetness.

My first sip hit me like a ton of bricks.  Tons of smoke up front.  After the first sip I was not impressed, actually disappointed.  I was hoping for another big winner from New Glarus.  I keep on drinking and feel like the smokiness is not over powering my palate.  I still get a smokey taste upfront, but it melts into sweet malt with a hint of smoke.

Medium body with very little carbonation.

Overall, not a big fan of this beer.  Just too much smokiness.  The more I drank of this beer the more I liked it, but it is still really intense.

Pours clear with my glass 90% full of off-white, billowing foam.  Retention is quite quick for the amount of foam with a bit of frothiness coming through.  Lacing is minimal at best.  Really surprised by the amount of foam here.

Aroma is mostly sweet caramel malt.  That's about it.  Not much going on here.

Taste is about the same: a lot of sweetness throughout.   A touch of spice hops.  Once again left me hanging.

Medium body with a high, prickly carbonation.

There are a few issues I have with this beer but it is very easy to drink, possibly a little too much sweetness hanging on to session.  Still solid and I would have it again, just was expecting more.  Enjoy!

Shared a bottle of 2009 with Rich and my wife.

Pours opaque with edges clear when held up to the light.  Foam is brown, thick, and about half a glass.  Retention is lasting with a touch of lacing.

Aroma is roasted malt, chocolate, and coffee.  Nothing really over burdens the other but all are well blended together.

Taste is more of the same.  Roasted malt, chocolate, and coffee playing a tap dance on the palate.  In spite of the alcohol not present in the taste or the aroma.

Light end of heavy body, maybe medium as I expected just a bit more to such a big beer.  Low carbonation.

This beer is deservingly well thought of.  The balance of such a high ABV is outstanding.  I will have to try and get more of this for future cold weather evenings.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque with an inch or more of mocha effervescent.  Retention is nice as the foam froths up.  Lacing is spotty, sticky, and at time thick.

Aroma is sweet chocolate and roasted malt foremost.  The chocolate almost gives off a creamy sense to the nose.  Very light hints of coffee and bitterness too.  Could almost pass as a milkshake.

Taste is chocolate, but not as sweet as the nose, nice roasted malt, superbly well balanced with a splash of coffee that mainly comes near the finish.  It is like a three course meal.  A touch of bitterness comes along with the coffee for a solid ending.

Medium bodied but maybe a little bit more with a lower end of carbonation.  A touch on the creamy side but dries a touch too.

This is a really well rounded, solid, nice drinking porter.  I want to homebrew something like this, that's how much I liked it.  It seemed to have the right flavors that were all in tune and perfectly balanced.  Great job.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque with a couple of inches of tan foam.  Retention is about average with the foam frothing up some.  Lacing is minimal.

Aroma is big: coffee, chocolate, and roasted malt come through loud and clear.  A caramel/toffee note is in there as well.

Taste is similar to the nose.  Coffee, chocolate, and roasted flavors abound.  Roasted is a bit stronger than the rest with a touch of roasted coffee lasting into the finish, including some creamy chocolate.

Medium mouth feel with mild carbonation, which might be giving it too much.  Creamy and somewhat drying.

Been a while since I have had an Asylum beer.  Why?  My taste buds are usually very happy with anything and everything from there.  Contorter fits in perfectly.  A solid beer all around.  I will definitely find this one again.  Enjoy!

 Amber that deeps orange with a haze. Thick off white of medium retention.

 Full tree fruit sweet and sour. Background malty breadiness and a touch of toffee.

 Bitterness and sourness upfront then the sweetness follows. Big carbonation and our bottle is a year old. Maybe some spices coming through. Alcohol is warming.

 It's not bad and the complexity of a barleywine is present.  The sweetness is held in check so it's a drinkable and I would try it again. The sourness, if that's what it is, kind of throws my experience with this beer off.

Short Rating
Arom 9 (22%)
Taste: 9 (40%)
Look: 8 (10%)
Drinkability: 8 (28%)
Overall: 8.6

Pours clear with a creamy, tan, half-inch of foam.  Retention is average with lacing that is sheeting but falls back to level afterwards.

Aroma is bread, toast, nut, and a soft touch of roasted malt to give a nice complexity.  No hops that I could detect.

Taste has a ton of mal bread, toast, and nut per the aroma.  Some caramel sweetness comes through also.  Banana comes through in the finish, which is a bit strange to me.  Hop bitterness is minimal.

Medium body with a bit shallower amount of carbonation.  Nice creaminess.

The maltiness to the beer is quite nice in the aroma and taste but the banana that came through just doesn't seem welled placed.  Having a free of these would be quite easy though.  Enjoy!

 Solid medium amber with some floatees , foamy tan head of average retention.

 Very piney then a little grassy & woody, possibly a little grapefruit way in the back. Totally not the hop aroma of midwest DIPA.

 Unbelieveably sophisticated. The big ibu's and abv's totally masked. The flavor starts as a tart grapefruit, a little caramel, the flavor notes just balance together.

 You could definately get three sheets to the wind in a hurry and never realize what happend. Most subtle of the DIPA's I've had this season. But a real adult beverage in the dryness and totally unique flavors. Wish I could get on a regular basis, and I'd kill to have on tap.

Love the name of this beer. Very Creative!

Pours a nice golden color with a white fluffy head.  Great retention with lots of nice thick heavy lacing.

Aroma is malty, bread, and a bit of citrus.  Fairly well balanced on the nose, but I was expecting a lot stronger hop in the aroma.

Taste is similar to the aroma.  It is not as hopped up as I was expecting.  Lots of malt that works it's way into a mild grapefruit citrus with a dry bitterness on the backend.

Mouth feel is light with medium carbonation, and very dry on the backend. Enjoyable.

Overall a pretty good beer.  I would say that it is well balanced, but was surprised that I was not hit with a really strong hop on this beer.  I guess the name had me thinking it was going to be a hop bomb.  Good beer though.  Try one!

Pours a deep golden color with a creamy white one inch head.  Nice retention on the head with nice lacing.

Aroma is very pleasant.  I am getting a citrus hop scent on the nose followed by a sweet malt.  The citrus reminds me of grapefruit and has a bit of a spice on it.

Taste is sweet like honey.  I get  a sweet floral and citrus hop at first that works its way into a slight bitterness and disappears quickly ending with a malt biscuit flavor on the backend.  A very sweet but well balanced IPA.

Light body with medium carbonation.

A very refreshing well balanced beer.  Great on a hot summer day.  I really enjoyed the fresh honey and floral tastes in the beer.  A fine English IPA! Try one!

Pours with nary any light passing through while huge amounts of thick, light brown, frothy foam fills the glass.   Retention is out of site as it should be based on pure volume.  Lacing is thick and sticky.

Aroma is an ode to ping and citrus hops.  Malts are lead by a smoke/peat element that comes to dominate.  A little roast and even chocolate come through.

Taste is sweet up front, quickly subdued by smoke malt that carries into the finish.  Slight roast joins with pine and mild citrus hops for a bit of a bite.

Medium body might be giving it too much credit while the carbonation is on the light side.

Nice clean beer that could have done without the peat malt.  In spite of my dislike for smoke malt, this beer is solid.  Thanks Matt for sending it to me.  Enjoy!

  Bold orange, amber with a touch of haze. Foam is full & thick, medium-sized bubbles, off-white in color.

 Aroma is the least inviting part of this brew. Almost seemed too common, but earthy and resiny hop do give it some personality...not not sufficently muti-layered.

 Maybe a hint of dried tree fruits, then big malt is very quickly dried out by massive hops that are not big in the flavor department. Medium -high mouthfeel, but never cloying with the hop driers running. Last tastes of bitterness and alocohol are balanced in.

 Malts and hops blend in the right proportions, and the beer is likeable enough. Just not sure it special enough to run with he bigger dogs. And older dogs, this I believe is a relatively new enterprise in it's home city of Asheville. If I lived nearby the brewery, I would be a frequent patron. Which would help me answer the question of how this beer ranks within the Wedge Brewing Company's lineup. As it was, I was sent a 64-oz growler just before NYE via 3-day Fedex, and it is super cool experience to get tap fresh beer from a cities we've never been to.

 Nice deep gold that a shade to the lighter sidew, a very slight haze, nice off-white delicate foam.

 Big tropical fruit (it's way I love Citra). Pineapple is most pronounced, then caramel malt. Maybe some woody note, another hop profile, Chinook maybe coming thru?

 Extremely well balanced between malt sweet and bitterness. It's got a little spice. The dryness comes through nicely. I like the lingering pink grapefruit aftertaste. Mouthfeel and carbomnation all good.

 This brew stacks up with the best IPAs anywhere. Kind of remionds me of an Alpine.

Pours clear with a half glass of slight off-white foam.  Receding gracefully, the top of the foam thickens, creating pock marks.  Lacing was minor.

Aroma is malty.  Caramel, toffee, and sweet with sweetness coming in last.  Floral and spice hops notes seem to cover a very light fruit presence that seems to be fresh yet a touch of raisin or plum.  A bit of work was needed to pull out these scents.

Taste is more bold than the aroma, lead by malt and finished by a citrus, spice, and floral bitterness that lingers.  Caramel, roast, toffee, and toasted flavors emit from the aforementioned malt.  Dark fruit comes in late but only briefly.

Medium body with moderate carbonation at best, the beer dries out the palate.

I have to be in the mood for a malt forward beer.  I didn't know I was but that might be an endorsement for the beer.  If you have the chance to have this beer, don't hesitate.  Enjoy!

Pours a cloudy pale amber color with an orange glow.  The pour presents a thin quarter inch white head that dissipates quickly leaving a thin layer of foam resting on top.  A good amount of light lacing.

The aroma presents a nice mix of floral and citrus hops with a grapefruit type scent all wrapped around a light caramel or toffee malt.

The taste is very similar to the aroma.  Starts mellow and quickly works into a sweet caramel or toffee malt with a blend of citrus and pine bitter hops joining in.  The malts and hops continue on into the finish with a dry earthy hop flavor finishing things up.  A dry bitterness last in the aftertaste.

Light to medium body with medium carbonation.  A slightly gritty mouth feel with a dry bitter finish.

Overall, I really like this beer!  An easy drinking pale ale with a solid hop profile that is well balanced with a nice sweet malt.  This is the first beer that I have had from Emmett's Brewing Co. and I look forward to trying some of the other beers they offer! Try one!

Pours a very deep brown, almost black, with a mahogany red glow around the edges of the glass.  The pour produces a half inch khaki colored head with dense tightly formed bubbles.  The head slowed recedes leaving a thin layer of foam resting on top.  Watery thick lacing that sheets down the sides of the glass.

The aroma is pleasant and complex with dark roasted malts, bitter chocolate, coffee, grains, molasses, and a hint of dark fruit.  A bit of alcohol is also noticeable if the aroma.

The taste is semi-sweet and provides roasted malts, coffee, and bit of vanilla that finishes with a touch of smoke.  The after taste is interesting with a slightly bitter coffee mixed with a cola type flavor that lingers on the palate.

Medium body with lighter carbonation.  Smooth and creamy mouthfeel with a watery slightly dry finish.

Overall, a very nice beer with a very impressive aroma.  The taste is very good, but the aroma makes me long for a little bit more complexity in flavor.  It seems strange to have a beer this good come out of an aluminum can!  A very nice easy drinking stout that I would have again! Try one!

 Probably amber with tints of red and brown. Almost looks slightly muddy. Tan small, consistent sized bubble of low retention and no lacing.

 Caramel malts and background mustiness. Picking up a bit of sour funk, but having a tough time spotting either the bourbon or cherries. Overall the aroma is not bad, but I don't know that I would call it enticing.

 First word to describe is cacophony of flavors. It seems malt forward, then boozy, followed by caramel sugars, and a touch of sour. Again, tough to find the cherries. I would describe the alcohol as more rough whiskey than smooth bourbon. But as the beer warmed the whiskey smoothed out and I started to get mellow vanilla notes. Brew is on the thick side, but not overly so.

 I must admit I don't fully appreciate the love this brew get from it's fans. Not saying it's a bad beer, but tough to find the belgian aspects of the brew other than some big malts. Lots going in the brew in terms of flavors, but not sure it all meshes together.

Pours a dark brown with a hint of ruby red around the edges of the glass.  The pour creates a thin tightly formed khaki colored head with good retention.  Thick lacing sheets down the sides of the glass.

The aroma is sweet blueberries, hints of chocolate and roasted malts. A very pleasing aroma.

The taste starts with a bold sweet blueberry and chocolate and works into a nice blend of roasted oats, roasted malts and a hint of coffee on the finish.  The finish is slightly bitter and has a touch of warmth from the higher abv.  The aftertaste reminds me of blueberry pie!

A fairly light body for this style beer with a medium carbonation.  A creamy smooth mouthfeel that is both dry, sweet and sticky.

Overall, a fun tasty brew.  Well balanced with a nice blueberry flavor that I don't think that I have ever tasted had in a beer before.  This is not a beer that I would drink all the time, makes for a fun dessert style beer that I would have again. Try one!

Pours a cloudy medium amber color with a one inch white head.  The head settles out fairly quickly leaving a thin layer of foam resting on top.

The aroma is mostly tart cherries with a bit of sweetness mixed with a bready scent. The aroma is a little bit odd to me.  The sour tartness mixed with yeast and bread is a bit pungent.

The flavor is similar to the aroma with a big tart cherry flavor that is blended with a bready malt.  A bit of spice is noticeable on the finish and in the aftertaste.  A sour tartness in the after taste.

Light body with a higher level of carbonation.  The mouthfeel is watery, but the carbonation is champagne like and tickles the tongue.

Overall this is an ok fruit beer.  Not bad, but the aroma is very distracting for me and the mouthfeel is a little bit off.  I do like the sour tart flavors that this beer offers.  Give one a try and decide for yourself.

Pours a deep amber copper color with a one finger light tan head.  The head slowly dissipated after a few minutes leaving a thin layer of foam resting on top.  Some web like lacing.

The aroma is a combination of sweet malt, bread, rye and a light sweet fruit scent.  A very pleasing aroma.

The taste again presents a sweet, but light dark fruit flavor that mingles with a sweet malt and rye and finishes with an earthy flavor and a bit of spice.

Medium body with medium to high carbonation.  Smooth and creamy on the palate with a zesty zing of spice and carbonation on the finish.  A slightly sweet stickiness on the lips.

Overall, a very nice beer from Great Divide.  An easy drinking beer that has a nice level of complexity, but yet maintains a simple enjoyable nature.  Very well balanced, tasty brew that gets extra points for a creative spin on this style of beer. Try one!

In the cellar for about thirteen months.

Pours clear with a half inch of tan foam that has retention like an old person has memory.  Void of any lacing.

Aroma of toasted and toffee malt.  It seems like a bit of bread crept in but it could just be the composite of the aforementioned.    Some dark fruits and candy sugar all come together on the nose for one sweet brew.

Taste seems to be a little lacking.  Oh, there is flavor: toffee, dark fruits, and candy sugar.  A lot of candy sugar.  A touch of spice from the hops but it is awfully light.  Belgian wise there isn't much.

Medium to heavy body but not viscous.  Carbonation is absent.  No alcohol is present anywhere in the drink.

I always try to patronize the breweries in the Midwest.  Arbor seems to put out consistently average beers with few ebbing above that level.  Phat is not exception.  It isn't bad in any way there is just nothing that makes the beer stand out above its peers.  Enjoy!

Pours with so much deep tan foam that I couldn't see the liquid at the bottom at first.  Thickening as it takes its time receding it is finally distinguishable that the beer is opaque because of deep color.  Lacing is sticky, dry, and all over.  Pock marks form deep crevices on the foam top.

Aroma is a contras citrus hops poking through at the same level of roast and chocolate.  The citrus is strong enough to give a clean sense to the beer.

Taste has some roasted malt up front that seems to travel deep.  Sweetness joins in the middle through the end, while chocolate and some rye spice join late and linger.  Citrus malts hit late but cut the sweet while carrying a touch of bitterness into the finish.

Medium body, maybe lighter with a good zing on the carbonation.  Almost gives a creamy sensation.

This was a very easy drinking beer.  The combination of ingredients was precisely put together to let each shine through but not dominate.  Bitterness isn't obsessive either.  Well done.  Enjoy!

Pours a cloudy pale golden color with a half inch fluffy white head.  The head dissipates quickly leaving a thin layer of foam resting on top.

The aroma is unusual.  Wheat and berry scents are what I am getting off the aroma.

The taste is just as unique as the aroma.  Wheat flavors quickly blend into a berry type flavor that continues into the finish.  The berry reminds me of raspberry. Some clove and honey like sweetness in the finish.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Watery and smooth mouthfeel with a very drinkable nature.

An enjoyable summer beer.  Very drinkable and refreshing.  The raspberry flavors are nice for a change and adds a little something extra on a hot summer day.

Love the label.......two old timers drinking beers in a trailer park!

Pours a slightly cloudy deep golden color with a huge frothy two finger head.  Great retention on the head with lots of frothy lacing.

The aroma is very nice with hints of bread, hops, and citrus.

The taste is a rock solid IPA.  A nice balance of malts and hopped up citrus.  Starts with a bready malt flavor that quickly gives way to a grapefruit citrus and hints of lemon and orange.  A bit of pine hops are present in the finish. A light honey sweetness on the finish.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Creamy, soft, and smooth mouthfeel with great drink ability.

Overall and very nice IPA from Smuttynose.  I really like this brewery and this beer is another solid offering from them.  An easy drinker with great balance and smooth refreshing flavors! Perfect summer day beer! Try one!

Pours a clear medium amber color with a white frothy one inch head.  Good retention on the head.

The aroma is a blend of malts, bread and grassy citrus hops.

The taste is nice with a hop forward profile that follows the aroma.  Starts with a nice grassy herbal hop with the bready caramel malts rising towards the middle and into the finish with some bitterness in the aftertaste.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Watery smooth mouthfeel. Very drinkable.

A nice beer from Great Lakes.  Makes for a nice summer beer with a very drinkable character.  A nice balance between the malts and the hops.  A hopped up pale ale with is enjoyable and refreshing. Try one!

Pours a clear golden color with a thin quarter inch tightly formed head.  Good retention on the head.  Lacing clings to the sides of the glass.

The aroma is faint, but I am getting some grain malt and a bit of yeast.

The taste is fairly simple, but enjoyable. Bready malts with a light spice and a touch of hops appear near the finish.  A light sweetness is present with a bready yeast flavor in the aftertaste.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Some what dry on the palate.

Overall an enjoyable beer.  Simple and straight forward. Not a lot of snazzy character here, but a solid easy drinking beer.  An easy drinking beer that is worth a try!

 Classic gold with slight haze, and a big soft white fluffy head.

 Ginger, brett, breadiness, and a touch of fruit. Really appealing, but hopefull it doesn't taste like a spice bomb.

 Wow, way more mild than the aroma would imply. Kind of just a regular beer, with a few high notes of flavor. There's a nice tartness that plays well with the ginger characteristics of the turmeric.

 This brew is totally unique and highly drinkable, which tends to make it a somewhat rare bird. This brew is refreshing and would make an excellent part of my summer brew lineup, if it wasn't so hard to obtain. Grab some Crooked Stave any time you can.

Quality appearance; rich gold color, very clear, and off white small bubble head of average retention.

Aroma not overly complex. Initial notes are Apricot and sweet malt. It arouses curiosity for potential an interesting brew but doesn't give an impression of complexity.

OK taste, some of the Apricot fruit flavor from the hops are there, but grainy malt kind of overlays.

A decent and sessionable APA. Not offensive in any way, but I struggle to define it's personality.

It looks like there other beer.
Thin lace, slightly more than Angry Planet
Arom  Chinook over roasted bread
Taste:  Big Chinook bitterness, lingers.  "Kiln" amber lends a.... slightly roasted/toasted/baked bread element.

I suspect this beer is old because others have talked about big aroma and that doesn't exist.  I would call it a chinook beer, which is big bitter, resiny, and piney, over roasted malt.

It's not a session beer.  It's a big meal and one is plenty.

Pours a deep golden color with a quarter inch fluffy white head.  Good retention on the head.  Lots of fluffy lacing sheets the sides of the glass.

The aroma is a blend of citrus and earthy hops with a slight sweetness. A nice aroma.

The taste starts with a light citrus hop and quickly moves into a malt and honey sweetness in the finish.

Medium body with a light carbonation.  Creamy mouthfeel with a slight dryness on the palate.

An enjoyable beer with nice flavors and is easy to drink, but does not have the hop punch that I enjoy in an IPA.

Pours with a slight chill haze into a snifter.  Foam is off-white, not quite beige and minimal, while it runs away to hide quickly.  Lacing is sporadic and spotted.

Aroma reminds me of Nelson Sauvin hop strawberry and blackberry laden.  Light hints of alcohol that are beaten back but the berries.  Toffee maybe butterscotch highlights the malt character.  The berries really subdue the rest and come across as delicate in spite.

Taste is built on caramel and toffee flavors (long boil and malts?).  The finish brings about a touch of hop flavors but there is an accompanying alcohol harshness that adds to the perceived bitterness bringing it to a high and lingering level.

Medium to big body with light carbonation.  Somewhat dry but a touch of sticky lip from the sugars.

The aroma had me going.  The taste was a let down.  The alcohol and identified bitterness level make the beer very difficult to drink.  I regret opening this beer for myself.  This is one of the few beers from Pipeworks that I have could not appreciate.  Enjoy!

Pours a clear deep golden color with a one inch frothy white head.  good retention on the head with thick frothy lacing.

The aroma is a blend of bready malts and citrus grapefruit.

The taste starts with a bready malt that works into a blend of sweet malts and light citrus grapefruit with a hint of mango.  Sweetness  mixed with the citrus as well as a light floral in the finish.

Light to medium body with medium carbonation.  Creamy and smooth mouth feel with a dryness on the palate.

Another great beer from Two Brothers.  Very drinkable with a nice blend of malts and tropical citrus hops.  Sweet and tropical in can!  Try one!

 Copper amber color, clear with an off-white soft meringue like foam head.

 Mostly my impression is strawberries or papaya or melons. There's some low notes of citrus, probably grapefruit but very subtle.

 Not sweet, more toffee like is the malt presence. Then come the fruit flavors, initially I think papaya and melons, but then I am unsure if it's more strawberry. All of the malts and fruit blend well. A little hop bite creeps in at the end, but not very pronounced. Very middle of the road in mouth-feel, and leans ever so slightly towards dryness.

 At first seemed dry and mixed flavor notes. Intriguing but not sure it was loveable. Upon repeated tastes the variety of fruit flavors melded into a strawberry like single note and the great balance of the beer seemed more apparent. This beer was never sweet but the malt was in perfect harmony like some English semi-sweet and salty toffee. Very solid and individualistic. I really think this is one of the small Midwest breweries to watch.

Pours slightly opaque but what I can see is clear.  Head, on a virgorous pour, is crazy big, tan, with big bubbles.  Retention is average or more with the foam thickening.

Aroma is subdued.  Chocolate, coffee, slight roasted, and even a sense of lactose sweetness, almost creamy.

Taste up front is slightly sweet.  Nutty?  Middle through the end brings on the interesting part chocolate, coffee, and roasted notes all dance the Charleston in the mouth.  Some residual dark chocolate bitterness.

Light end of medium body with minor carbonation on this year old bottle.

The subdued aroma keeps this beer from being over the top good.  The taste in the mouth is almost stout like and there is so much taste in spite of the beer not "feeling" that big in the mouth.  Nicely done.  Enjoy!

Pours clear but with some teenie, tiny floaties.  Head is huge, white, frothy, and tightly packed.  Retention is like watching grass grow: slow.  Lacing really isn't there in spite of the size of the foam.

Aroma has some nice farmhouse funk.  Yeast, some spice, and rye come through.  Spice is probably a product of the rye.  There seems to be some bread malt with a touch of sweet.

Taste is subtly complex.  Spice, rye, and yeast all dance, as choreographed, to a pleasant tune in the mouth.  Spice lingers as dose a bit of funk.  Bread malt sits behin supportive.  Spice is definitely the strongest element here.

Body is between light and medium while the carbonation is mild.

This is a really solid offering.  I could have this often as this is one of my favorite styles of beer and Saison Rue seems to almost nail it perfectly.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with a inch or more of off-white foam.  Above average retention as froth builds.  Lacing is thick, clingy, and all over.

Aroma is pine foremost.  Citrus are there too but the pine dominates and from a foot or more away from the glass.  Close in there is some caramel and bread malt.

Taste has a hop bite right off the bat that lasts throughout and into the finish, even the after taste, of course.  Citrus is the main hop, maybe some herbal and slight spice hops.  Pine is there but no where near as strong in the flavor.  Resinous.  Malts are heavy and chewy: caramel, toffee, and bread.

Body is bigger than expected as it is at the large end of medium, at least.  Carbonation has a bit of tingle on the tip of the tongue - average.

Definitely a west coast IPA from the hop profile and the amount of hops but the malt is big and strong.  That isn't a knock: something different is something good.  Don't know if I will be able to get this again but I would definitely want to.  Enjoy!

Shared with family at our Christmas celebration.

Pours somewhat cloudy with a finger or so of off-white, tightly packed, small bubbled foam.  Retention is about right leaving a bit of wispy, sticky lacing.

Aroma, what you get as it was light, was nice.  Belgian yeast lends some spice while there is candied Belgian sugar seemingly giving off some sweet molasses and dark fruits.  Interesting.

Taste is molasses, pears, with a touch of alcohol on the back end.  Dark fruits takes their place too.

Light end of medium body with with a medium, at best, carbonation.  Dries the palate (oak conditioning).

Might be a little bit thinner than I expected for the style.  It also brings to question the light nose lasting for another nine years to do the complete vertical; there isn't much to begin with.  I like every aspect of this beer but it just needed to be ramped up.  Enjoy!

Pours a deep golden color with a nice two inch head.  Head has a creamy orange tint.  Medium retention with nice lacing.

Aroma is nice.  I get a sweet citrus hop scent with a bit of malt, pine and some earthiness.

Taste is good as well.  A nice mix of citrus hops, a hint of orange and malt up front.  It then works it's way into a pine and finishes with a grassy bitterness.

Medium body, medium carbonation. Has a sweet sticky smoothness.

Overall a nice IPA.  Crisp and refreshing with a nice complexity that I was not expecting.

I'll keep this quick:
I think it's Simcoe over Chinook.
Smells great, tastes great, this is a great beer and sOOOOO easy to drink.

 Bear fur brownish black. Neat and full, tan, small bubble foam of brief endurance.
ce.

 Soft milk chocolate with distinct sweet grapefruit overlayed on the back. Digging deeper maybe some type of dark sugars and faint coffee. All parts blend well in a inviting melange of fruit and sweets.

 Not very sweet, but some variations of the nose fruit scents. Definately some roasty malts and bakers chocolate emerge is a supremely reserved manner. Soft and low medium mouthfeel. Moderate levels of carbonation, in no way a fizzy beer.

 Not as big as I thought this beer would be, and I mean that is a positive way. First, very sessionable, ok more likely on a fall/winter night. But the porter/stout fan will find that this beer will do rather nicely. The levels of dryness, malt sweet, and roastiness are in well porportioned balance. At the same time brewer manages to inject a WC skew that keeps it real and interesting. Very nice job.

Note: This brewer date stamps, this bottle was best by 10/3/11.

Pours crystal clear with a vigorous pour bringing on a half glass or more of white foam.  Retention is about average while the reverse rising foam creates a touch of thickness to the top.  Lacing is slight in terms of mass but there is a lot.

Aroma is sweet, toasted malts that mingle with pine, citrus, floral, and grassy hop scents.  In spite of the multiple hop scents found, it is actually laid back and light.

Taste is really malt forward with sweetness throughout lasting into the finish.  Toasted flavors add a touch of fun while floral and grassy hops try to balance.  Not much bitterness here.

Big end of light body with a crisp and refreshing carbonation.

The site calls this beer a very drinkable IPA.  It is.  Not a big sock in the nose from the hops that most expect from an American IPA but a good drinker.  Light as they made it to be.  More of a conversion IPA.  Enjoy!

Pours almost black in color with just a hint of dark brown showing around the edges of the glass.  A big robust tightly formed tan head rises on the pour.  Great retention on the head.  The lacing sheets down the sides of the glass.

The aroma is full of dark roasted malts, bitter dark chocolates and coffee.

Taste is very similar to the aroma. Dark roasted malts, coffee and dark chocolate that gives it a slightly bitter finish.  This beer has a sweet character about it, but the slightly bitter finish helps balance it out and give it a nice well balanced taste and finish. All of the dark bold flavors work together, giving this beer a perfect harmony of flavor.

Big body with lighter carbonation.  Milky creamy mouthfeel with a sticky slightly sweet finish.

My overall impression of this beer is that it is a winner!  Nicely balanced with great flavors.  A very easy drinking beer with a perfect mouthfeel for this style.  As a big fan of oatmeal stouts I am impressed and would recommend this to others that like this style.  Put this on your list of beers to try Stout lovers!

Pours a dark brown color with a quarter inch creamy tan head.  The head dissipates quickly leaving a thin swirl of foam resting on top. Very little lacing.

The aroma is really nice.  Chocolate, roasted malts, caramel, and coffee with a mild earthy hop present as well.

The taste starts sweet with caramel malts and chocolate then works into a light coffee flavor and finishes with an earthy light citrus hop with a slight bitterness. A very nice balance in the flavors and is very refreshing.

Medium body with light carbonation.  Smooth and creamy making it very drinkable with a dryness in the finish.

Overall, another impressive beer from FireStone Walker.  The dark flavors are balanced nicely with the earthy citrus hops and makes for a very easy drinking refreshing porter. The price is not bad on this beer as well.  A darn tasty brew that is worth a try! Try one!

Pours with slight chill haze accompanied by a huge helping of white, tightly packed foam.  Retention is outstanding, frothing up a bit as she goes.  Lacing begins quickly, clinging to the glass in rows of stickiness.

Aroma is hop forwar citrus.  A sweetness compliments the hops, possibly over compensating for the hops.  Rye is slight.

Taste is of lighter end of caramel malts.  The middle to end builds a nice orange hops flavor.  Rye is there in the finish as well but only slightly.

Light body with a stiff carbonation.  Dries the palate nicely.

Could use a little bit more body for my liking.  The rye just doesn't come through as I would have liked.  Minimal bitterness.  Definitely a summer IPA.  The lightness with the dry finish is refreshing.  Enjoy!

Pours dark, almost opaque, but some light comes through.  Huge amount of tan foam is thick and frothy.  Retention is ridiculously good while lacing wasn't there in spite of the foam slowly moving on the sides of the glass.

Aroma is faint.  Roasted malt, chocolate, and some creamy sweetness can be found.

Taste is sweet milk chocolate, caramel, with roasted malt and a hint of coffee late.  A touch of bitterness hangs around.

Medium body with late carbonation on top of a creamy body.

A nice stout that has a really nice creamy body that fills the mouth while the sweet milk chocolate melds nicely with roasted malts.  Definitely easy to drink that is well rounded.  Enjoy!

Thanks for this one Scot!

Pours a slightly hazy golden color with an inch of white foam head.  Good retention on the head with lots of thick web like lacing.

The aroma is amazing! A huge blast of citrus hits me as I opened the bottle, giving me a sneak peak as to what was in store!  The aroma has a sweetness to it as well.

The taste is just as big and bold as the aroma!  A big blast of citrus hops that works into a bitter grassy hop on the finish. A sweet malt helps to balance this beer out and makes it very drinkable.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Bitter finish leaving the palate slightly dry.

Overall this is a top notch beer!  Another awesome hop bomb from Three Floyds.  Huge hop flavors here while maintaining a perfect balance and very drinkable.  I just wish this beer was easier to get!

Arom  Bourbon upfront.  Smooth Bourbon!  It smells so good!!!!!!
Maybe some raisin and currant?  Vanilla, oak.  Sweetness is clear, but not overt.  Hint of alcohol.

Look:  Pretty dame black.  I'm excited.  I appreciate a black beer.  I would say with out debate- it's darker than 2012 Dark Lord (a minor "disappointment").   No visible head, but the thinnest lace at edge of glass.

Taste:  Heat- alcohol.  Followed by easy drinking bourbon.  Hint of black patent bitterness.  That bitterness grows as you drink more.

Light carbonation (appropriate) and medium almost light body.  This is actually great because the body is so big, the 'lighter' body makes it easier to drink.  That is a brilliant move.

I mentioned alcohol, which is apparent, but it doesn't taste like 18%.  Wow.  What a beer.

As a point of clarity, I don't think there is a perfect beer, so I can not give out a 10, that's lightspeed in my book.  Unreachable, but this beer is pretty amazing.

Arom  My first thought is it smelled like Saison.  My second thought is it does not smell like a Farmhouse Ale.  It smells like a Tripel.  Here's my guess, it's the same grain profile as "Saison", but it's a different yeast.  That would sure make for a cheap beer to make.  One brew, two yeasts.  But I'm speculating.

Look.  Light gold (like Saison) with a thin lace.  Lace is very thin, less than Saison.  I'd say it's wrong color- to 'dark'.

Flavor: Phenolic, which is from the yeast.  I'm telling you my theory is it's the same beer as his "Saison", but with a different yeast.

Like the other beer, it's not exceptional- it's passable EXCEPT for price.

Short Rating
Arom 8 (22%)
Taste: 8 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 7 (28%)
Overall: 7.8

 Delicate and fluffy in a pure white. Bright gold with slight haze.
 Citrus, spice, and bread.
 Spice surrounded with sweetness, and citrus in the background. Dryness comes quick, and the finish is like fine lemon pastry.
 Sopisticated, refined, and smooth. A euro spice flavor mixed with perfect balance of hop bitter and malt. RR deserves all the prop's they receive from their fans, me included.

From a 2010 bottle.

Pours opaque with a half glass of deep tan, small bubbled foam that is packed tight.  Retention is about right for the amount of foam.  Thick lacing seeps back to level, leaving a couple of millimeters of foam in its wake.

Aroma, taste, etc are old.  This "small" stout is well past its' prime.  Need to have a fresh bottle to give this beer a fair chance.  Going to give this 6s across the board until another day.

Pours clear with ever so slight a haze.  Head is white and fluffy with average staying power.  Lacing is sporadic which might be giving it too much.

Aroma of yeast, wheat and wheat scents that are complimented by floral hops.  Grassy.

Taste is minimally sweet.  There isn't much hops going on.  More grain, wheat and yeast dominating.  Crisp.  Clean.  Nothing residual in the finish.

Light body on top of a medium, almost spritzy carbonation.  Juicy in nature.

This is a blonde ale - just nothing fancy.  Definitely easy to drink.

 Very clear, deep gold. An average amount of soft white small bubbles.

 very soft aromas, almost muted. First is farmhouse-ness, some breadiness, sweetness from malt, and faint spice. Nothing wrong, kind of an average score on enticement.

 Seems too sweet and a bit too bitter. I always disclose this is not my fav style. It's not perfectly balanced, so the spice seems too pronounced.

 I hate being negative. I just can't get past the bitterness of the spice. It's drinkable but at the price point I need to like it more.

Short Rating
Arom 7 (22%)
Taste: 8 (40%)
Look: 8 (10%)
Drinkability: 8 (28%)
Overall: 7.8

Pours clear with about an inch of frothy, tan foam.  Retention is above average with thick, sticky lacing.

Aroma is big on the dark malts.  Dark fruits, molasses, and roasted malt all add to the drinks complexities.  Very much like a stout in aroma.  Minor scents of resin.

Taste is sweet with molasses and dark fruits up front with both becoming prominent in the finish again.  Roasted malt and especially coffee start in the middle through the end, with the coffee, and then smoke both coming into play.  A bit of resin and bitterness that helps to balance.

Medium body at biggest with minimal carbonation.  Lighter than expected yet bigger than I expected.

A contrast of styles taken to a new level.  Lots of big, dark malts that give a bold, yet light beer.  I like the twist with little notice of the alcohol: well hidden.  Enjoy!

 Medium Amber with definate red tinge with slight haze. Off white, medium full foam. Definately some lacing on the glass.

 Very rich toffee maltiness covering sweet, medium dark fruitiness. Any hop aroma seems to swirl into malt.

 Not thick syrup the aroma suggests. Soft sweetness, disaptes into caramel and orange citurs blend. More fresh fruit aftertaste, almost no hop bitterness. Carbonation levels are balanced.

 At first taste I wasn't sure about this beer. On subsequent trys I became a big fan. The initial red ale tea notes gave way to much deeper and complex toffee with blends of citrus/tropical fruits. FFFs has no fear in making each brew totally it own.

Bottled on April 21, 2010, batch 4, bottle 359 of 472.

Pours cloudy with several inches of meringue, white foam.  Retention is average with nary any lacing.

Aroma is Belgian yeast with spice scents.  Pear or white grape are deep in the beer but not much else.

This is old and musty with a bit of off spice.  Nothing good really here.

This is water.  Pure water with yeast.

A year or so ago I was really searching for White Birch beers and was excited to land a few.  Now not so much.  Enjoy!

This is beer review number 600.  Yippee!

Pours opaque with two inches of frothy, thick, tan head.  Retention is outstanding: similar to watching paint dry.  Reminds me of an IPA in terms of the texture of the foam.

Aroma is roasted malt hidden behind a huge blast of chocolate that I believe is a touch bitter yet, seemingly not dark in nature.  Coffee plays a role too, it just nicely compliments the chocolate.  No hops.

Taste allows all the scents from the nose to come through as flavors.  Creamy chocolate, a touch of coffee, and a bit of roasted malt all seem to play together like they have practiced for years.

Light carbonation on a beer that is mildly creamy while medium bodied.  Alcohol slightly zings the palate.

Sometimes beers overly impress, much more so than you expect.  This beer is exactly that.  I actually wasn't looking forward to a beer this evening as nothing really captured my taste buds mentally, once I cracked this open, I figured out what I wanted.  Enjoy!

From a 2010 bottle.

Pours clear with a few inches of medium sized bubble, tan foam.  Retention is bit above normal and froths on the top as it recedes.  Lacing is sporadic, tiny, and slippery.

Aroma is light on the sniffer with touches of roast, caramel, nutty, and toasted malts.  Sweet.

Taste is sweet up front as caramel flavor touches the lips, the middle is quickly greeted with a sudden build up of hops and bitterness hiding toasted flavors, while the end brings it together with a splash of nut and herbal hops that leaves a lingering effect.

Medium body with quite the spritz carbonation with a dryness to the palate.

This has all the aspects of a brown you would want with just enough hop profile to almost balance out all the sweet malts.  The only shortness here is the aroma not keeping up it's end.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 8 (22%)
Taste: 9 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 8 (28%)
Overall: 8.5

 Deep golden with slight haze, with a soft, off -white foam.

 An appropriate farmhouse funk, with white grapes in the background. Seem appealing.

T : Lot's of variety Of flavors. A nice Bret sourness and then a appealing lemony citrus. The mouthfeel gets very dry in the end. Right mouthfeel, it's full but not over the level it should be.  Lots of carbonation and I like it....seems appropriate.

 I'm ot the beast judge of this style, so I'll make only some general remarks. The first sips didn't reveal the depth of Brett tartness I would have expected. I love the citrus notes, they left a very satisfying aftertaste. The alcohol is not very pronounced, more of a warmth than burn. Apparently very rare, only 43 of 120 bottles.

 Dark, deep brown. Full merengue thick foam, of light brown in color.

 Main aroma notes are dark fruits (raisins and prunes) and chocolate. Some brown sugar and coffee in the background. Overall a very appealing nose that suggests big taste flavors to come.

 First impression is dark fruits and sugars mixed with a clear alcohol heat. Other flavors in the background are coffee, licorice, and chocolate. Not as thick of a mouthfeel as I would have guessed. Good amount of carbonation, it kind of tickles in the mouth. A slight amount of alcohol burn in the after taste.

 Overall, a very solid brew. Especially solid considering the bottle we drank was a July 2009 bottled date. It was definitely drinkable versus a fresh Oak aged Yeti. My final impression was a notch down because the alcohol and spiciness was a touch out of balance. But definitely a brew worth having ESP considering the price.

Pours clear, effervescent with a half inch of slightly off-white foam that has average, at best, staying power.  Lacing is thick but quickly seeps back to liquid level.

Aroma is white grape and pear fruits forward.  Definitely sweet carried by caramel and bread malt scents.  Alcohol is hanging on the edges.

Taste ushers in gobs of sweetness with bread and yeast flavors coming in waves in the middle, the yeast hangs out into the end.  Alcohol is present in the finish.  White grape and pear meander from the middle, hanging on until the alcohol begins to mute them.  A peppery hops presence beats back the sweet.

Big body that sits on top of a big sweetness that comes close to making this beer a mess.  Carbonation isn't shy.  Dries the palate a touch.

I was surprised by the green grape and pear in the beer.  The yeast was also more of a factor than expected.  Definitely interesting but only in small doses as the sweetness and alcohol are stiff.  Enjoy!

 deep, dark brown with light brown foam that makes a brief appearance.

S/ chocolate and whiskey are first. Background notes of char and malt. Semi sweetness, stops short of too much and helps offset the whiskey bite. The sugar tastes like a variant of dark chocolate.

 I definitely would have this beer again. But it really should be at a lower price point. It seems to sit on shelves in Chicago. Anyway, it reminds me of those euro chocolate candies with booze in them.  I am not an expert on whiskeys, but I think Old Fitz (which was this versions barrel) is an average quality. It's a bit of a rough element but is a complement  to the chocolate elements of the beer. This beers has got its own personality among whiskey barrel aged beers. It's good, just not great.

Vintage 2011

Pours a slightly cloudy deep golden color with an orange hue.  The pour creates a zesty thick layer of white foam head with great retention. Thick spotty lacing.

The aroma is a blend of sweet fruits with hints of white grape, clove and spices with an underlying bready scent.  Some sourness to the aroma as well as a touch of alcohol.

The taste is very similar to the aroma with sweet fruits, possibly grapes or cherries, or maybe apples (I can't put my finger on it), bready malts, cloves and zesty spices.  A touch of tartness on the finish with the spicy notes lingering in the after taste.  Some woody flavors as well as a touch of honey are noticeable as well.

Medium body with a medium carbonation.  Creamy and smooth with a sweet sticky feel on the lips.  A touch of chalky dryness on the palate for the finish.

Overall, another tasty and creative brew from Two Brothers.  Complex and interesting while maintaining very enjoyable flavors. Worth a try if you can still find a bottle!  Try one!

 Pure clear, perfect golden liquid. Soft, white, small bubble foam head.

 50/50 fruit and pine scents. Saw reference to pineapple and mint, don't know about that, but the scents are deeply complex. The suggestions of one or another aroma sends me back to the rim of the glass to sniff away and I seem to get wiffs of th suggestions.

 The use of the word balance proabaly is overused, but in this brew it's an understatement. The malt sweetness and hop profile come together about as perfect as I've ever tasted. Both contribute a stromng presence. On the hop side, a oily complex pine

Pours clear with a half inch of slightly off-white foam.  Retention is above average with the amount of original foam.  Lacing is thick and coating, leaving spotty lacing behind as most lazily slinks back to level.

Aroma is subtle for an IPA.  A caramel malt backbone takes over floral and earth hop scents.

Taste is more the same but with some spice hints that do the beer injustice.  Some hop bitterness add balance.

Light body with a good dose of carbonation.

I really like the aroma as I couldn't pick up the spice but it bombed me once I took the first sip.  I would have it again but only if there was nothing else.  Enjoy!

Pours a clear black color with a hint of ruby red when held up to the light.  A tan one inch head on the pour slowly resides down to a thin layer resting on top.  Heavy lacing sheets down the sides of the glass.

The aroma is full of sweet dark scents.  Molasses, licorice, dark roasted malts and a bit of chocolate.

The taste is smooth and relaxed with the dark flavors mingling together creating smooth creamy flavors.  Molasses, milk chocolates, a bit of licorice and some coffee flavors on the finish.  Sweet and creamy from start to finish.

Big body with light to medium carbonation.  Creamy smooth mouth feel and with a slightly dry finish.

Overall, a very nice stout.  I am enjoying the sweet rich flavors in the beer that are well complemented by the smooth creamy mouth feel.  This beer tends to be pretty sweet, but I really like that in this beer as everything works together well and makes for a really enjoyable beer. Try one!

Bottled date: 5/4/11

 Same deep gold as Blind Pig, but foam head has larger thick bubbles and slightly off-white.

 More caramel and citrus, with only faint pine notes. Absolutely nothing but perfection, not a single off note.

 What a great melange of flavors, the sum of it's parts are great, but it's a total team effort. It takes some effort to break down what's happening. First, I would never guess the 18% abv, not in a million years. Next, it's the most crispy and clean caramel beer that I've ever had. Medium mouthfeel, not sticky in any way.

 This stuff is magic in a bottle. How such a huge brew comes off as sophisticated as it does is brewing skills at the Jedhi level. This is a tricky style and it's a hugely competitive style segment. Pliny's the benchmark and worthy of all the attention.

 Red tint to the medium amber ale that has a slight haze. Delicate off-white foam.

 Big malty is most forward.There's a bready sweetness with soft notes of caramel.

 Wow, not sure if all the flavors compliment each other. The hops hold back a big malt sweetness. There's the barleywine's huge caramel and toffee notes. The alcohol isn't hot but definitely present.

 Full disclosure, this isn't my favorite style, so my opinion on this beer is skewed. I think I could grow to like this beer, but my initial thoughts are hot and a little too spicey. It's well made and there's nothing off-puuting about it. You try it and judge for yourself.

 Slight haze to this pale, golden hued brew. Pure white foam head that's full and uniformly fluffy.

 Initialy there's a pronounced sweet citrus fruit aroma. Then it quickly becomes a faded memory.

 First, impression is a soft lemony, then dry without much malt sweetness. It almost seem chewy, but it's got a light mouthfeel. Obviously it has a hop profile, and I found it to be citrus without an overpowering bitterness.

 The Maine Beer Co is a favorite, though I am way off the NE distribution network grid. Maybe I'm a sucker for the uber sophisticd label look and text. Tough to get much info in brewery online description of their brews. This beer, Peepers Ale is a completely balanced ale from the perspectives of flavors and heft. It's certainly very well craft brew, and part of the top tier of my traded beer collection, it's also the ultimate session ale. And how can you not respect the brewery mission statement| "Do what's right" and is a "1% for the planet" company. I have nothing but respect for these Maine Beer folks!

 Very deep brown. Huge, thick foam head that's dark khaki.

 I like molasses and the aroma of this brew has it in spades. Mixed with the vanilla note and a little chocolate makes this real attractive in the nose.

 A bit of bourbon first, some woodiness, and a touch of vanilla. It's a touch dry for the style, and sweetness is very much held in check. Initially, it was overly carbonated but it fizzed out rather quickly to my surprise. A bit too much left over wood flavors at the end.

 Decent brew, off style but who cares about that any more. Everything is pretty much in balance, no off flavors. I assume the overt woodiness may be from the kind of barrels, not expensive bourbon. In the end it a good tasting beer that could be great.

Fifteenth Anniversary beer.

Pours somewhat cloudy with an inch of tan and tiny bubbled foam.  Ravid effervescent highlights the liquid below.  Foam has nice staying power, lathering as it begrudgingly dissipates.  Lacing is quite thick and covering with most sliding back within a few seconds.

Aroma is definitely malt forward.  Caramel and toffee sweetness greet the nose while dark fruits turn the sense away from the candied backbone.  Slight alcohol.

Taste is all about the dark fruits.  They mingle with sweetness the entire way but the fruit over states them and builds mildly through to the finish, lingering.  Alcohol comes in late and nicely.

Big end of medium mouth feel here without cloying sugars but does leave the mouth dry with the lips slightly sticky.  Carbonation is medium or better.

Didn't know what to expect here as my first go around wasn't pleasant with Highland but this is one good Old Ale.  Well balanced and smooth.  Enjoy!

From a 2010 bottle.

Pours opaque with a couple of inches of mocha foam.  Foam is thick and thickens a touch as it recedes gracefully.  Lacing is fair and streaky.

Aroma has nice coffee notes that are helped along bu the underlying stout.  Roasted malts, sweet chocolate,  and brown sugar contribute to the backbone.

Taste is similar.  Coffee might have fallen off a bit in the flavor but the roasted, chocolate, and residual sweetness makes for a nice stout.

Medium body with medium carbonation with nary any alcohol coming through.

This is the light end of an imperial stout.  The coffee, unfortunately, seems to have seen its better days in this beer.  Of course I want to try it fresh.  Enjoy!

Poured cloudy with ample clear white foam.  Retention was okay as was the lacing.

Aroma is at the perfect level in terms of intensity.  Banana, clove, yeast, Belgian sugar sweetness, and hops.

Taste follows the nose: it seems to have the perfect balance of flavors.  Clove and banana are the top flavors.  Wheat and a touch of sweetness come through also.

At least medium on the body with ample carbonation.  Doesn't dry much and could almost be thought of as too heavy.

I can see why this beer has won a bunch of awards.  I have had it on tap as well as out of the bottle now.  Of course the tap is better but this doesn't falter much.  Another trip to Michigan will find me having more.  Enjoy!

A vigorous pour yields a half glass of tan foam that starts frothy but lightens up as it retreats.  Clear in color there is minimal lacing.

Aroma is nutty and intensely so up front.  Roasted malt, toffee, and a touch bready.  Hops are tough for me to make out; floral maybe.

Taste brings out more of the dark malt.  Sweet, toffee to start but roasted malt come in the middle with it finishing with some nuttiness and bread.  Bitterness comes in the finish too bud fades nicely, good balance for all the malt.

Body is on the light side with moderate carbonation.

Maybe a little to small for the style.  I find this to be crisp and refreshing; something that would be good even during the warmer months with a twis the dark malts.  Definitely a keeper for me as the lightness was unexpected but delicious.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with a half a glass of white, meringue foam that has above average retention.  Lacing with spider web in nature and all over.

Aroma is sweetness from caramel.  Balance comes from a nice does of floral hops.

Taste follows the nose very close.  There is a pleasant bitterness in the finish that lingers a touch but it isn't over whelming.  Some spice hops are there on the lips in the finish.

Light end of medium body with a carbonation level.  Dries the palate a touch.

It seems that a lot of ipas these days are trying to mimic the west coast style so most have the same feel.  Tallgrass does a nice job with the floral and subtle spice combination.  The malt profile is typical but the hops are a nice touch.  Enjoy!

Appearance: Rich gold color with a very slight haze. Downy soft white foam of adequate retenion.

Smell: Pineapple, grassy, and a touch of pine.

Tase Great balance of tropical sweet, quickly neutralized by a herbal bitterness, but not lingering on either note too long.

Mouth: Medium and smooth.

Overall: Surprise by hoe modern this IPA was. Hooray, Oskar Blues gets hip and nails a WC style IPA.

My first beer from an old friend, Tyranena.  Can't wait.

Pours clear as day.  Minimal white foam to start.  Fleeting head.  Good sticky lacing from the onset in spite of the lack of foam.

Aroma is dank hops.  Touches of alcohol, caramel and citrus hops.

Taste of caramel.  Dank hops early, possibly from the nose in the snifter, giving way to softer pine.  Good balance of bitterness and sweetness in the finish.  Both are there, neither overwhelms, vying for attention.

Medium or better body with light carbonation.  Slight resins left behind.  Finishes dry.

After a long separation, glad I came back to Tyranena.  Balling the Queen has great balance but the way the malts/sugars interact with the hops isn't the best profile I have had.  Worth a try.  Enjoy!

 Golden haze with a full, fluff&foam, white, merange like head.

 Citrus & Mellon...fresh.

 Grapefruity tart, low-med bitterness, any thought of sweetness dries out fast.

Mouth: Full beer, but thins out quick.

Overall: Who doesn't like Citra, and then add some Mosaic? Demands a sophisticated palate, as there's no candy sweetness here. This brew combines a big tart citrus with an almost dry cider like Belgian finish. Cool to see that the current level of Nashville brewing skills matches Music City's big talents. Solid brew!

Pours opaque with a quarter inch of tan foam.  Feeble retention.  Lacing nonexistent.

Aroma has hints of chocolate hidden behind a spoonful of peanut butter.  Fake/artificial aromas?

The taste continues but with a better balance between chocolate and peanut butter.  Both taste as if they came from an extract bottle.  Roast, dry finish.

Light end of medium body is a stretch.  Big carbonation aids in creating that faux body.

The good part of the beer is the aroma before you realize that it is forced and artificial.  Not much about this beer feels real.  This is very tough to stomach more than a few sips.  Enjoy!

I have long been a fan of Bryan Shimkos brewing abilities.  The last beer I have had with his named attache Hi-Fi Rye.  Looking forward to this beer and many more to come.

Pours clear but dark.  Nary any head.  Retention and lacing following.  The color is a nice mahogany that no doubt is influenced by the amount of rye.

Aroma is grain and rye foremost.  Caramel sweet.  Booze.  Hints of dark fruit.

Taste follows the nose.  Not quite as boozy.  Caramel is there, not as sweet.  Dark fruits are starting to add interest.  Late booze mingles with a huge hit of spiced rye.

Thick, sticky body.  Medium carbonation, maybe.

Possibly too young at this point but it is good.  The caramel, dark fruit, and rye combination makes for a complex and interesting beer.  Wish I had more to age.  Looking forward to more beers from Bryan and Blue Island.  Enjoy!

12 ounce bottle served into a tulip glass.

Pours opaque.  Thin dark tan foam cover, dissipating quickly.  Surprisingly lacing  exists but quickly recedes.

Aroma is tremendous.  Cinnamon is what I perceive first but I think that is from the combination of brewing ingredients.  Cocoa is the strongest ingredient.  Don't know if they use powder but it seems like you are able to smell the powder as well.  Pepper comes next.  Vanilla is in the background.  Chocolate cocoa powder surprise.

Taste is almost as complex as the aroma.  More muddied though.  Each ingredient isn't as clear as it was in the aroma.

Big body with a fair amount of carbonation.  Alcohol is well hidden.

This is a really good beer.  Great complexity.  Surprisingly easy to drink.  The aroma is better than the taste, yet the taste is solid.  The muddiness of the taste takes away from the drinkability.  More available than it was originally.  Try to get a bottle or three.   Enjoy!

Pours clear with many floaties.  Foam is minimal while retention does not exist.  No lacing.

Aroma is more chocolate than it is coffee.  Not much else going on.

Taste follows.  Seems to be more chocolate than coffee.  This sense of chocolate also bring some sweetness.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Drinks much bigger than a blonde.

I am for experimenting as I am a home brewer but when I have to pay for experimentation in a craft beer, I struggle more and more, as disappointment seems to rule.  Not enough cohesiveness to keep my interest or warrant another.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with a finger of pure white foam.  Retention is solid.  Some lacing to start but nary a trace later in the experience.

Aroma is dank hops...

Stopping review here as the this was canned on 2015-11-03, almost a four month old DIPA.  Shame on me for purchasing and shame on the beer store for just getting as a "new" beer.

Love the label.  Reminds me of a song by Southern Culture On The Skids - My House Has Wheels!

Pours a cloudy deep golden color with a nice two inch foamy head.  Nice retention with nice fluffy lacing.

Aroma is floral with a sweet citrus, maybe grapefruit.

Taste is very nice.  A grain taste hit me up front and works its way into a nice balance of sweet citrus and floral hops. On the back end I am getting a pine hop with a hint of bitterness.

Mouth feel is light with medium carbonation.  Crisp and refreshing with a dry bitterness at the end.

A good solid IPA.  Very well balanced and refreshing! Would definitely have another.

 Rich mahagony brown. Tiny bubble, tan foam head with low retention.

 All vanilla, and then work to get some roasted malts. Some other notes deep in the back.

 Very interesting because of a bunch of different flavors that emerge. Ok, you've got to like vanilla, but that's far from the only thing going on here. It's dry and soft presentation sets the stage for a much more subtle, yet complex taste profile.... than I would have thought this brew might have. There's some semi-sweet chocolate notes with the really tastey roasted malts. Ok carbonation level. The mouthfeel is velvety smooth.

 I was worried this brew wouldn't taste right, and I was totally wrong. Love this brew for it's complex personality, yet all elements are held in restraint. For a porter it surprisingly refreshing. The low abv makes it most sessionable, but you think you're drinking a heavier brew. I like a good surprise, and this brew is that.

 Orange amber, with haziness based on the pour, cause there's a bunch of yeast at the bottom of the bottle. Thick, fluffy head that slighly off white. Retention is very long.

Spicey fruitiness is my first impression.

 Pleasant and refreshing is the first thing that comes to mind. I was prepped for some monster brew, with a name like extreme. It's got a very subtle tree fruit sweetness and a background of spice/pepper. No part of the taste is overbearing. Hardly any hop bitterness, esp. for a 70 ibu. Nice carbonation.

 There's been some criticism of the american craft brew tendency to infuse styles that don't traditional have huge hop profile and juice them. Which based on the label, a American-Belgo Style IPA is what's going on with this brew. But, my position is that the american way is to be individualistic and indepenant. At the end of the day, forget about style definitions, the question is whether or not it's a good drinker. Rock Art's Extreme is very good. My personal preference would be to tone down the spice a bit, but others taste preferences could be different. But it's well crafted and there are no inbalances.

Pours a pale amber color with a quarter inch white head.  Some retention on the head as a layer of foam resides on top of the beer long after the pour.  Lacing is web like.

Aroma is relatively mild, but I am getting mostly malts and a floral hop presents.

Taste is bready malts and a bit of earthiness with a mild floral sweetness.  I am also getting a hint of honey on backend.

Light to medium body with medium carbonation.  Watery with a bit of dryness in the finish.

Overall this is a decent pale ale.  This is not a very complex beer, but is enjoyable  and refreshing.  Worth a try and is a pretty easy drinking beer.

 Dark brown but not black. Tan foam of low to medium retention.

 Dark fruits and malt sweet. When I let my imagination to go wild I get brown sugar, toffee, grapefruit, very light smoke, and more. Very, very  inticing.

 Winner, winner chicken dinner. Roasty, semi-smoked, semi-sweet malt, then mabe slightly burnt brown sugar, followed by hop citrus (grapefruit?) notes, a slight bitterness. Alcohol's there but remarkedly subdued for the abv level. It's on the dry side, with medium mouthfeel.

 This shit rocks. Smooth, balanced, and complex, and yet a large personality (dudes; it's a 100 ibus and most folks would never guess that level). The type and blend of malt with hops is perfect for such a large brew. Founders is the one of the top brewers of big beers in the US. I think the 2010 beats the 2009 like a drum. This beer is heavily rationed, only bottled in 12-oz, it's going to be very hard to obtain. Go now, get some.

Pours slightly hazy with about an inch of virgin white foam.  Retention is fleeting while there is no lacing to speak of.

Aroma is wheat forward.  Spice like pepper, a bit of sweetness, and a very light lemon scent.  Overall very light.

Taste is like the nose: light.  Not much right away but there is wheat, sweet, and some fruit (?).  The end brings some pepper (very light), lemon, and even a touch of tart.

Very light on the mouth with enough zesty carbonation to zing the front of the tongue.  Dries out the mouth fairly well.

Not a bad beer, just nothing that really blows me away either.  The aroma and flavor aren't complex enough to make me rate this over other Saisons.  Pleasantly easy drinking, making it fun to have a few.  Enjoy!

Pours with a chill haze as Chuck is having a few with us and I am not taking them out of fridge fast enough.  Nice problem to have. :)  Not much for lacing, head, or retention.

Aroma has a bit of hidden alcohol with bread, toffee malt forward beer.  Hops are earth and wood.

Lots of hops in the mouth.  Pine up front with spice, wood, and earth hops continue from there to the finish.  A bunch of bitterness hits the palate and lingers.

Medium body and a light carbonation round out the beer.

The finishing bitterness is a bit unbalanced and I desperately like balanced beers, including ipas.  In the minority in terms of my dislike of this beer.  Seems to be a theme for the evening.  Enjoy!

Pours a deep golden color with a copper tone.  Big white foamy head that dissipates quickly leaving a thin layer of foam on top.  Watery spotty lacing.

Aroma is very pleasant.  A nice mixture of pumpkin, spices, nutmeg and cinnamon.  Has a sweetness to it.

Taste has a nice hop flavor upfront and works into a tasty blend of pumpkin, nutmeg, cinnamon, and brown sugar.  Reminds me of pumpkin pie with whip cream on top!

Medium body with medium carbonation. Watery mouth feel.

Overall a big winner in my book.  One of the best pumpkin beers that I have had.  Very well balanced and enjoyable.  Have one on Halloween!

 Deep gold with slight orange tint. A little hazy, but no floaters. Decent foam of medium retention, off white color with tiny bubbles.

 Mango madness, followed by an orangey tang, and faint biscuity scent.

 Mango and citrus, slightly malt sweet, hardly any hop bite. Not sticky mouthfeel but not thin by any means.

 Hadn't tried Sweetwater before, and admidst a flurry of bigger name DIPA (Hopslam, Nugget Nectar, etc) I wasn't expecting much. Totally wrong, this brew was perfectly balanced and had luxurious tropical fruits flavors. Neither the big hops nor alcohol were incorrectly proportioned. All around solid DIPA, will definatelty seek out.

 Normal, clear pale gold.

 Very hard to decifer. Some roasted malt, then a whole bunch of other stuff

 Not bad at all. Lactose, sweetness (not so much malt), a tangy citrus, and other flacore.

 Very surprised I liked this brew. In general I hate spice and gimmicky beers, and this seemed like it would be the poster child for all of that. But, damn I kind of liked the taste. Somehow the blend Shorts did of marshmallows, graham crackers, lactose, limes, malt, hops, and who knows what else blended into a decent tasting mix.

Pours cloudy with a whole glass full of light tan foam.  Retention is long lasting with a thick, sticky, and coating retention.

Aroma is citrus hop grapefruit and orange with a splash of pine (?).  Some sweetness from the malt but subdued.

Taste is a touch of sweet and light than a bombardment of hops and lingering bitterness.  The middle is a combination of ryes' spice with citrus hops then the end comes bringing on another wave of hop grapefruit and some pine.  Saying this beer has bitterness is saying the Grand Canyon is a nice hole.

A light body all the way around with a heavier end of light carbonation.  Much different then the amount of carbonation shown in the pour.

This beer has more foam than a lot of sour beers.  That is only a side note to the amount of hops in the taste.  Maybe a little too bitter for me but a still a fun drinking beer.  Enjoy!

Arom  Roasted Malty goodness.
Look:  Translucent ruby brown at edges.  Thin head that rests along edges.
Taste:  Balanced.  Smooth.  All the attributes of a classic stout +1.
Carbonation:  Med
Super pleasant.
Super drinkable.

 Clear gold amber. Delicate white foam that quickly disaptes.

 Big piney malt. In my mind's eye I see sticky hop oils floating in the brew vat. The fruity nose finishes with pineapple and maybe light grapefruit. Scent says buckle your seatbelt.

 Like biting into a hybrid new fruit called grapefruitypineappleyorange. I admit there's pine notes but not in a obtrusive way. The big malt sweetness totally held in check by a very cool hop profile. A perfect mouthfeel for the brew, semi-thick without being over the top.

 A really good Imperial IPA. I love the palate of fruit flavors. And like all great beers, the balance is perfect. After a big gulp, the finish of fruit, pine, malt, and alcohol fire is a nice of blend as any beer I've had. It's fresh (brew dated in March 2011) but seemed to be small supply in Chicago, find this quickly.

Pours a Dark Amber brown with a hint of red.  Nice think foamy head that dissolves quickly, but leaves lots of nice lacing.

Aroma is mostly Nut and Carmel and pine hops.

Taste is similar to the aroma with lots of nut and caramel malt and finishes with a mellow pine hop that gives it a bitterness at the end.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Creamy and smooth.

Overall an enjoyable beer with a nice complexity that keeps it tasty and interesting.

Pours opaque with a half glass of brown, medium packed bubbled foam.  Retention is quite good with the foam becoming frothy.  Lacing begins immediately: sticky and web-like.

Aroma is a surprising citrus hops on top of a toffee malt.  Complex but time and many sniffs yield roasted malt, molasses, some dark fruit, and some earthy hops.

Taste is all over the place and hard to pinpoint.  The end definitely has some hops that add a bitter bite to such a huge malt bill.  What are the IBUs?  Molasses, roasted, toasted, dark fruits, peppery spice, and more.  I think each sips leads to more.

Full body with light carbonation which is befitting, as far as I am concerned, a bigger beers.  Creamy and an ever so slight touch of alcohol that dries.

Definitely a big beer that has a lot going on.  I think maybe too much as the beer doesn't define itself at all.  9000 is much better.  That all said, I would have this again but there are many beers with a much smaller price point that I would go for first.  Enjoy!

Pours quite cloudy into my Founders tulip glass.  An inch of snow white foam covers the top.  Retention is average with thick, slippery lacing.

Aroma is straight forward Belgian yeast peppery.  Clove adds to the overall peppery scents.  Pleasant fruitiness is behind the spice adding some complexity to the nose.

Taste is much more robust than the aroma.  Tartness starts immediately but is hemmed back by sweetness.  Pepper and clove are quick to follow, eventually leaving the tongue powdered with white pepper in the finish.  Fruits show in the middle: pear, green apple, maybe even cherry.  Combined they give a bit of barnyard feel to the beer.

Medium body with moderate carbonation that seems a shade low for the style.

The fruits never really made it past the phenols in the aroma.  The rest of the beer picks it up and is highly complex and easy to drink.  My first of the Upright Saison's but hopefully not my last.  Enjoy!

Pours almost black with a hint of red around the edges of the glass as I hold it up to the light.  A half finger tan head quickly disappears into a thin layer of foam floating on top.  Lacing is thin and spotty.

Aroma is dark and rich.   I am getting dark roasted malts with coffee and a hint of chocolate.

The first sip gives me big sweet malts.  The sweet malts are followed by a blend of milk chocolate and coffee and finishes with an earthy hop that balances everything out perfectly.  A slight dry bitterness is present on the finish.

Medium bodied with a lighter carbonation.  Creamy mouthfeel, but has a watery quality to it.

A very nice porter with nice flavors and balance.  A very easy drinking beer that I could enjoy year round.  Add this one to your list, it is a good one!

 Deep Amber and very thick off-white head.

 Citrus and pine, pretty deep in intensity of aroma notes.

 Soft and dry start. Hard to sort out the malt taste profiles. Big hops masking a few of the elements of this brew. Subtle and sour grapefruit taste in the background. Low to medium carbonation.

 Very dry and almost a tartness. Not sure it's my cup of tea (in the spirit of the whole Mad Hatter theme). But it's well crafted

Pours quite cloudy.  An inch of white foam exits.  Retention is rather low for an IPA.  Lacing is thin in nature, numerous and  consistent.

Aroma is pale malt, touch of sweet.  Lots of hops.  Grapefruit, orange with pine hiding behind.  Resinous, almost dank.

Taste is definitely sweet, accompanied by bursting hop flavors.  Grapefruit and orange.  Pine accents again.  The beer is so dry, bitterness does build after a while.

Heaving end of medium body, maybe bleeding into the lower end of light-heavy.  Carbonation is medium.  Well fit for the beer.  Dries the palate.

A very drinkable IPA.  In spite of the dryness there is to much sweetness throughout.  It almost tries to juice up the mouth.  The hops are nice, just not perfect.   Definitely worth a try.  Enjoy!

Pours clear into my snifter with about an inch of slightly off-white, meringue foam.  Retention is average at least.  Lacing is sheeting but thin.

Aroma has lots of mal caramel for sweetness with toasted and biscuit scents.  There is some fruitiness going on but I don't get much on the hops.

Taste is malt forward.  Once again caramel, toasted, and biscuit make you want to pull out a fork and add some gravy.  There is a pleasant fruitness.  Toast and fruit seem to last for a while in the mouth.

Medium body with a heavy end of light carbonation.

Why are ambers so damn monotonous?  Nothing really wrong with this beer but nothing stands out and makes it any better.  I actually thought this beer might be some type of Belgian based on the name.  Enjoy!

Pours with s light chill haze.  Minimal white foam retreats rather quickly.  Lacing is sporadic, created by the ring of the foam that remains.

Aroma is hop forward.  Pine is the most forward.  Grapefruit and resinous.

Taste has a solid bread base (didn't pick this up in the nose), kicker of toffee.  Pine and grapefruit with a pleasant bitterness and toffee linger.

Medium or better body as it is a bit thick.  Minimal carbonation.

First beer from Telluride.  Wish I would have picked up more.  Very nice beer.  The toffee might be a bit much but the balance of hop flavor, aroma and bitterness due this beer justice.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque with clear edges.  Foam is light tan, creamy and a half-inch thick.  Retention isn't quite what I expect from the style.  Lacing is dotty.

Aroma hints with carafa scents.  Orange, tangerine type citrus is clear and prevalent.  Quite nice.

Taste follows from the aroma.  Carafa (muted, light roast) type malt heads the malt side of the taste that is really permissive to the hops.  Once again orange, more closely related to tangerine, leads the hops charge.  Almost finishes clean but there is a bitterness, especially as it warms.

Light end of medium body that has ever so slight a creamy edge.  Carbonation is on the lighter end.  There is dryness to the finish.

Nice beer.  Another hoppy serving from FFF.  Is there really any other type that they produce.  Nice delicate balance.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 3 (22%)
Taste: 3 (40%)
Look: 6 (10%)
Drinkability: 2 (28%)
Overall: 3.0

This was served shaken, so the dregs were mixed into beer. I never saw a decanted version.

My first impression was a classic IPA hop, maybe centennial?  The aroma was quickly overwhelmed by the Belgian yeast profile which is pleasant and again not overwhelming. It's pleasant, easy to drink, alcohol is hidden. As a Belgian IPA, it hits all the points. It's fine, I'd drink it again.

Arom Pleasantly hoppy.  Cascade and Centennial.  Very classic "C" hop.  Not "pronounced", not over bearing, just noticeable.
Taste:  Surprisingly hoppy.  Again, Cascade and Centennial, which is always nice.  No obvious bitterness, just citrus with a dash of sweet and only a linger of hop bite on the back slide.
I'm surprised at how much I like this this flavor.  It's almost timid.  Almost.  Just not big either.  Just the right amount of Cascade and Centennial.

Arom  Hint of cascade and nugget, but not over pronounced.  Hint of Munich behind that.

Taste  Like it looks.  Cascade and Nugget, but just a hint.  Identifiable, but not pronounced.  Not bitter, just hop flavor over a hint of malt.

Looks, Golden and clean.  You can almost read through it.

Very drinkable.

What are my thoughts.  It's pitched as a session beer.  It won best of 2013 World Beer Awards and 2013 Best Brussels Beer Challenge.  So is it good?  Well a bunch of judges said yes!
And it's a blonde session beer.  It's a finely tuned delicate almost nothing.
Sure it's easy to drink, because it's a blonde.  Not much of this, not much of that.  Can't complain about a hint of cascade over hint of malt.
For it's style.  Fine.  But there are so many better beers out there because they have more of everything.

 Orange gold, with a very slight haze. Soft off-white foam of medium low retention.

 Fresh citrus and tropical fruits. The citrus is a mix of grapefruit and tangerine. Some light breadiness. Appealing aroma starts my interest.

 A nice mix of the fruits and a mild caramel sweetness. A decently full mouthfeel, but stops at the right level. Nothing out of balance. The hoppy dryness is late and comes mostly as a grapefruity tartness. Big personality for a 8% abv beer.

: Definitely a West Coast inspired DIPA. But necessarily a clone by any means. Seems most like an Alpine, but there's the unique SOB twist in flavor. Solemn brews most of the time have a signature aroma/flavor note, and it's here. This brew will run with the big dogs. Glad this brewery is in my hood.

Poured into my Half Acre pint glass.  A slight haze infuses the beer while the foam is a couple of inches of semi-frothy goodness.  Retention is what one would expect from an IPA.  Lacing is almost not a part of the beer.  S uprising.

Aroma brings me thoughts of citr orange, mango, and that typical cattiness.  Pine rides behind while both are built on a slight bread malt backbone.

Taste doesn't hold the amount of malt or hops that the aroma does (dry hopping).  Nevertheless tropical fruits and pine are there, especially in the finish, creating a pine and grapefruit bitterness that lingers.

Very light body.  Too little for the beer.  Carbonation is on the lighter end too, quite possibly adding to the perception of the body.  Dries the palate a touch.

The light body creates huge drinkability while the hop bitterness knocks it back a tad but not enough to make this a very pleasant experience.  I solid look at a lighter beer.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque from the deep blackness of the brew.  Mocha colored, creamy foam coats.  Retention is above average for a stout with it lasting almost the entire time of the drink.  Lacing doesn't exist.

Aroma is neutral: no dark malt or other associated scents from the style.  Plums, dark cherries and maybe even raisins highlight the subdued scent.

Taste is barrel, aged.  Tartness but not much cherries.  The tartness hits near the end and stays withe the finish.  Lingering but soft dark malts - roast.

Medium body with medium carbonation, possibly even more.  Lots of small bubbles.

An interesting beer but just not enough.  The age might have something to do with it.  Don't worry if you didn't get one of the 360, it wasn't a ground shaking offering.  Enjoy!

From a bottle dated April 16,  2010, numbered 203 of 516.

Pours opaque with a half inch of deep brown, mocha colored foam.  The foam quickly disappears.  The thin layer of foam that stays behind leaves a touch of lacing on each sip that slinks back to level.

Aroma is faint.  Brown sugar and molasses, slanted towards the brown sugar.  Dark fruits, plum, gives the sense of age.  A sweet, creamy, milky scent carries, reminiscent of a milk stout.

Taste has a bitterness that carries throughout, seemingly brought out by the espresso.  Lingers, quite harsh.  Underlying burnt, smoke, peat with light sweetness is behind the battered coffee.

Body is medium.  A sense of dryness keeps the mouthfeel from being more.  Carbonation is light end of medium or less.

Packaged well as the beer was not contaminated over time.  The age probably hurt of the overall impression of the beer but the espresso bitterness is too much.  The smokiness doesn't help my overall impression either.  Enjoy!

Pours slightly cloudy with a white, sticky lacing that leaves behind a bit of lacing as it recedes.

Aroma is forward funk, really tart.  There isn't much else.

The taste is more of the same: straight tart funkiness.

Medium body or better.  Plenty of spritzy carbonation throughout.

A nice beer that was fairly one dimensional: tart funk.  I assume the age (three years or so in the bottle) has contributed to the tartness consuming this beer.  Still, not bad to drink, just slowly.  Enjoy!

From a 2+ year old bottle.

Poured into a tulip glass.  Haze.  Large amounts of pristine white foam cover the liquid, taking up more than its share of the glass.  Retention is quit good; thickening of the top foam as it recedes.  No lacing.

Aroma is lemon, citrus, esters, pepper, and Belgian yeast.  The pepper and yeast mix to create this almost musty spice profile.

Taste is slightly sweet up front, transitioning in the middle to citrus.  The end becomes complex: pepper, yeast, dark candy sugar, and dark fruits (plum, raisin).  The finish has a touch of alcohol and deep fruits that linger.

Lots of carbonation help to create a large mouth feel.  The carbonation seems a bit much.  Dries the palate a touch while leaving a bit of sugars on the lips.

The finish of the taste is the best part of the beer.  The aroma is too quaint, I wanted more.  Overall a really solid offering.  I think the age helped make the beer more complex.  Fresh it could be alcohol hot.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 9 (22%)
Taste: 8 (40%)
Look: 10 (10%)
Drinkability: 8 (28%)
Overall: 8.4

Pours clear with three inches of off white, tightly packed foam.  Retention is average at best as it seems it is for this style.  Very minor lacing at best.

Aroma is malt forward as it expected.  Bread scents dominate the glass.  Nut, caramel, and hops are there too.  Smell this quick as the aroma seems to disappear the longer the beer mixes with the air.

Taste continues with bread malt making up the backbone of the drink.  Caramel sweetness up front with a touch of nut in the middle lasting through until the end.  Finishes with a bit of spice hops for balance, although softly, with a touch of buttery flavor; very minor.

Light end of body with a crisp share of carbonation.

A bit thin for the style both in the nose and the mouth.  This beer should start to let me know it is there by the end of it.  The aroma, while it lasts is pretty solid but it just doesn't have staying power.  It reminds me of many Oktoberfest beer just a little short.  Enjoy!

 Amber is a deep red-orange. Very thick, off white foam that's skews to the merange side.

 Smell is slightly off to me. Very strong caramel mixed with some kind of floral (?) that don't seem to compliment each other.

 Starts big and malty but is quickly tempered. A bunch of fruits in the mix, not overly sweet but is complex. This brew is 3-years old so there's definately was a big hop profile, that's somewhat muted. The alcohol heat there but not stinging nor too forward.

 This is a big style that's got much to balance. It's definately drinkable, but some of the flavor mix doesn't appeal to my individual tastes. The bottle we had was three years old, and it's aged very well. Lot's of foam head, nice alcohol integration, and distinct notes in the taste. In the end, the aroma was the negative aspect for me.

Pours clear with an inch of tan foam.  Retention retreats quickly, before slowing and taking its time for the latter half.  Lacing is sheeting but falls back to liquid level.

Aroma has earthy hop aromas with a touch of pine.  Malts are sweet caramel, almost toffee, maybe even a touch of nuttiness on the back end.

Taste is caramel, toffee, and nut malt up front with the nut flavor lasting throughout.  Nice.  The middle starts a transition with a bitter bite that goes away, leaving behind earth, pine, and floral hops.

Medium body with about the same carbonation.  A bit creamy.

A bit of a surprise beer as I like it more than I anticipated.  The nut malt presence was really good for me as it gave the beer some complexity that some are missing.  Enjoy!

Pours a deep golden color with a quarter inch white fluffy head.  Good retention on the head.  Spotty sheeting lacing.

Aroma is crisp and clean.  I am getting a nice rich blast of floral and citrus hops with sweet malts.

Taste is big and bold.  A nice big mouth full of spice and floral hops on the first sip.  Works into a sweet malty mix of caramel malts and floral and a bit of pine hops.  Finishes with a dry bitter hop flavor.

Medium body with a medium carbonation.

I like it. It is a  good beer with a nice level of complexity.  Smooth crisp refreshing.  I'll have another one, bartender!

Pours a deep black with a nice foamy one inch head.  Medium retention with spotty lacing.

Aroma is mild, but strong.......I know.....interesting.  I am getting roasted malts with a nice dark chocolate. A hint of smoke. Has a bitter aroma.

Taste is a huge punch of smoked roasted malt.  A bit of bitter dark chocolate mixed in, but the smoked flavor is a bit over powering.

Mouth feel is a bit watery, so light with medium carbonation.

Overall, not super impressed.  It is not terrible, but the smoked flavor is a little bit strong for my taste.  This beer just does not taste like a oatmeal stout.......to much smoke, not enough sweet.

A vigorous pour brings about a cloudy beer with plenty of effervescence.  The head is big bubbled, off-white, and some half of a glass high.  Pock marks dimple the top as the foam slowly recedes, leaving thin, sticky spider webs adorning the sides of my drinking vessel.

Aroma brings wheat up quickly and thick.  Floral hops fill the sense next as some sweet wanders in late.

Taste is wheat and floral flavors up front, transitioning to spice that I can't quite make out.  The end brings on sweetness touched by citrus (hops).  The sweetness stays for a while as does the citrus but not bitter.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Keeps the lips and mouth moist.

A definite interesting beer and gives me some ideas on home brewing.  The taste was more malts than wheat, so I don't know how well this fits the category.  Anywho, I continue to appreciate the one-offs coming out of Half Acre.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with so much white, dense foam, that I had suspicion that the beer might be infected as I have recognized it from some of my home brew ;)  Retention was from another dimension while the lacing was spotty and slightly sticky.

Aroma has some wheat and chocolate.  I definitely sense some tartness, so maybe the beer is infected.  Off to the taste.

Taste is sweet up front and really all the way through as it lasts into the finish.  The late middle to the end brings on some straight up chocolate bar.  There have to be some hops in the beer but none that are noticeable.

Light body with a crisp carbonation that lends a bit to the body.

The aroma led me to think this beer is slightly infected but that was reversed by the taste.  Personally I don't appreciate a beer that has me guessing if it has problems or not.  If you make me perceive problems, there are problems.  Enjoy!

Pours a deep black with a root beer style, tan, one inch head.  Nice retention with spotty lacing.

Aroma is rich in roasted coffee. Has a sweetness to it.

Taste is Coffee.  The end.

No, for real....this has a huge roasted coffee taste.  Has a bit of a bitterness mixed with sweetness which is interesting. This beer also has a mild spice to it.

Mouth feel is medium body with medium carbonation.  Creamy but yet watery.

Overall, a tasty beer if you are a big fan of coffee.  I love a good dark beer with a nice coffee flavor, so this beer is pretty good in my opinion.  I wish it was a little more complex, but still enjoyable.

It's a hot night here in Sandwich, IL.  It's nine in the evening and it's 85 and humid, so I decided to try this fruit beer since it sounds cool and refreshing.

Pours a cloudy medium amber with a huge three inch head.  Head dissipates quickly leaving a half inch head on top.

Aroma is bready malts and raspberry.

Taste is just as I was expecting.  It has a nice refreshing quality.  I get lots of wheat up front that works it's way into a tart raspberry.  Fairly sweet, but not over the top....just right.

Mouth feel is light with medium carbonation.  Clean and enjoyable.

It's not the style beer that I would want every night, but on a hot summer night it really hits the spot! Try one!

Pours a deep black color with a thin dark tan head.  Head disappears quickly leaving just a thin ring of foam around the edges of the glass.

Aroma is interesting.  I am getting a sweet fruit, maybe raisin or even a rum mixed with roasted malt.

Taste is similar to the aroma.  Lots of roasted malts, but I am getting a sweet fruit mixed with dark chocolate and molasses.  A bit of bitterness on the back end.

Mouth feel is light for this style, a bit watery, but has a light creaminess.  A very drinkable imperial stout.  Medium carbonation, which again is not what I would expect from an imperial stout.

Overall an enjoyable beer, nice balance with a nice level of complexity to make it fun and interesting. Try one!

Bottled on 2009-12-10.

Pours opaque with a couple of inches of mocha and brown foam on top.  Retention is average or better with the foam becoming frothier as it dissipates.  Lacing is only minor.

Aroma roast and sweet chocolate.  There is a very light presence of smoke.  I wish there were some dark fruits in there.

Taste is large and wonderful with a trail end of smoke coming in side door.  Very sweet up front giving way to dark fruits and roasted malt.  The end brings on bitter chocolate and prunes.  Nice.

Big body with a mild carbonation on top of this slightly viscous beer.  Dries the palate.

A really fine sample of an Imperial Stout.  The smoke adds subtle complexities (glad it wasn't overwhelming).  In spite of how big it sits in the mouth the beer is very drinkable but still a sipper.  Enjoy!

Pours a deep black with a one inch tan head.  Head dissipates quickly leaving a thin ring of tan foam around the edges of the glass.

No lacing

Aroma is roasted malts with a bit of chocolate and coffee

Taste is nice.  Sweet chocolate and coffee up front that works it's way into a roasted malt that finishes dry and a little bitter.  A very simple stout, but satisfying.

Mouth feel is a little bit watery with medium to low carbonation.

Overall this is a simple enjoyable stout.  It is not going to make any top ten lists, but it is still an enjoyable good beer with a nice flavor.

Pours clear with a half glass, white, thick foam.  Retention is well above average with spider web like lacing.

Aroma is pine and citrus hops on top of a mute malt that is slightly bread in scent.

Taste doesn't different much from the nose.  Light sweet and bread malt with pint, citrus, and fruit hops coming through and leaving a bitterness in the mouth.

Light end of medium body with medium amount of carbonation.  Drying with some hop resin and oils hanging out.

How good of brewers are they in New Glarus?  I have never tasted anything close to this from them before but they hit the style, especially leaning West Coast, perfectly.  Another great beer.  Enjoy!

This has bottled was aged for a year.

Pours clear with an inch of white foam.  Frothing up has it recedes at an average rate, there isn't much lacing left.

Aroma is mostly of sweet malt.  Not overly sweet but caramelized malts are about all I can find.  Maybe a hint of spicy hops.  Dark fruits are there too but only lightly.

Taste is sweet with dark plum sugar in the middle.  Peat starts slowly in the middle and builds subtly to a non-overwhelming level.  Peat lingers with caramel malt for a while along with slightly spiced hops.

Full body with a medium carbonation. Dries the palate a bit a leaves the lips a bit sticky.

Unbelievably I actually dig the pet in the beer as it takes some of the attention and spotlight of the sweetness.  Drinkable in spite of the higher ABV and the amount of sweetness.  Solid.  Enjoy!

Pours black in color with a huge two inch root beer style head.  Great retention on this beer.  The head mellows very slowly and leaves think foamy lacing.

Aroma is pretty mellow.  Not getting much more that roasted malts with a hint of molasses and  liquorice .

Taste is great.  Starts out fairly mellow when it first hits my palate, but works into a nice big flavor.  Lots of roasted malts with a nice blend of chocolate and coffee on the backend.  End with a hint of sweet  liquorice.

Mouth feel is dry on the palate. Semi-sweet. medium body with medium carbonation.

Overall a great beer.  I would have this any time. I will buy this one again.  It is a dark beer, but I could enjoy this one in the winter or even on a hot summer day.  Try one, you won't regret it!

Pours clear with better than an inch of pristine white foam.  Retention is above average with the foam going through phase meringue and eventually creamy, before thin and disappearing.

Aroma is full of Belgian yeast and spice. Floral bouquet with a touch of citrus hops.  The floral/spice mix almost approaches a perfume scent.

Taste is a bit sweet up front, with floral, citrus hop notes coming in along with the yeast and spice, riding it to the end.  The finish brings some lingering spice and at times floral.

Light bodied beer with a zesty carbonation.

I have a problem with the perfume arom it just didn't agree with me.  Otherwise the taste seems to be spot on.  I would have it again but cautiously.  Enjoy!

Pours a rich mahogany with very little head and very little lacing.

Aroma is sweet malt and caramel.

Taste is very smooth and sweet. Lots of rich malts and nuttiness as well as a hint of prunes or raisins. Has dryness on the tongue.

This is an easy drinking beer, but the sweetness may limit the number that you have.

Pours a clear deep golden orange color with a one inch white head.  Good retention on the head.  Thick spotty lacing.

The aroma is not as bold as I was expecting, but is rich and has some nice complexity.  I am getting some pine hops, a bit of citrus hops and some floral aromas mixed with sweet malt.

The taste bears similarities to the aroma.  This seems to be a malt forward IPA.  A semi-sweet bready malt works into a grassy hop and finishes with a touch of pine and citrus. Some bitterness on the finish as well as some warmth from the higher ABV.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Sharp and slightly tingling on the palate.

A solid enjoyable IPA with a malt forward character.  The malts create a richer, more hearty IPA that makes this a good winter IPA beer. I would like to have this beer again as the label on this bottle says it was bottled on 11/28/2011 making it almost three months old.  The hops might be a bit more bold on a fresher bottle.  Try one!

Pours almost clear, the dark color makes it seem cloudier than it actually is.  An inch or more of off-white, thick foam covers.  Retention is fantastic.  Lacing is thick, coating and sticky.

Aroma is malt forward.  Very little hops.  Slightly oxidized.  Spice.

Taste is malt forward as well: caramel and darker malts.  Not much of an aftertaste.  What is there, carries malt and some oxidization.

Medium body and carbonation.  Between dry and juicy, trending towards dry as more consumed.  No hope bitterness, taste or aroma.

Not the hop bomb that I expected.  Too malty.  The oxidization in the aroma is not well received.  Too dark for a DIPA.  Many home brews that I have had are better than this beer.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 9 (22%)
Taste: 8 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 8 (28%)
Overall: 8.3

Pours clear with tan, quarter inch, wispy foam.  Retention was fleeting at best while the lacing was very spotty and minor.

Aroma is subtle but sweet, light roasted malt.  Hops are grassy, really light.

Taste is a little thin up front with sweet, the middle brings on the roast that lasts through to the finish.  The end has a little more sweet with grassy and citrus hops.  Roast is lasting into the after taste.

Thin on the body while there is a crisp carbonation.  Drying.

A little lighter on the nose than I would have liked but the overall beer grew on me a bit.  This style is growing on me too, just not much of these not on the west coast.  Enjoy!

 Solid gold, real clear. Average off-white foam of low retention.

 Fruity and floral. A touch of bready sweetness . Some citrus lemony, orange notes in the background.

 Nice big IPa all hops and malts. The hop bitterness while not overwhelming, is a tad high and kind of biting.

 Pleasant  fresh hopped APA. Nothing wrong, just the overal flavor note blend wasn't perefect nor unique. I didn't love the hop profiles selected for the brew.

Pours opaque with minimal brown foam that hangs around minimally.  Spotty lacing.

Aroma is Belgian yeast with spice.  Banana, roasted malt, and with some sweetness.  Not as big or complex as I expected.

Taste is similar.  Roasted malt almost becomes chocolate almost.  Dark fruits of raisin and prune.  Belgian yeast, spice, and light banana.  Sweetness seems to come from Belgian candied sugar.

Medium body with about a medium carbonation.  Dries the mouth like a dessert.

Definitely not the best in the style but I would have it again.  There are other Bell's beers I would have before this one.  Enjoy!

Pours dirty with some yeast with enough frothy, white foam to fill a baseball stadium.  Didn't even get a 6oz pour into my pint glass.  Retention is outstanding with the foam thickening even more as it recedes.  Lacing is thick, sticky, and sporadic.

Aroma is big on the cherries.  Some wheat but a dose of musty/tart fruit aromas follow.  Definitely reminds me a bit of a Jolly Pumpkin beer.

Taste has signs of a wheat beer with a some cherry to it.  Sweet in the middle, becoming mildly tart in the finish.  Not over done, letting the beer come through a bit.

Light body with a big carbonated fizz but not a detraction.   Dries the palate a bit.

Not a slap you in the face fruit beer.  Enough of the base beer comes through to keep this one legit.  On a hot summer day this would be much more refreshing and probably when I would seek another one out.  Enjoy!

Poured clear as I could tell with a huge, thick, brown foam.  Retention was above average with the foam becoming thicker and richer as it dissipated.  Lacing was light brown (tan), thick, and sticky throughout, leaving rings everywhere.

Aroma is a solid porter: faint hops, roasted malt, maybe a dark fruit or two.  Could be a little bit more but still good.

Taste is just what I like in an easy drinking porter.  Roasted malt, minor hops, with a nice, slight coffee finish that lasts into the after taste along with the roast.  The coffee almost seems to build late in the aftertaste.  Interesting to say the least.

Medium body with a heavy end of light carbonation.  Dries the mouth a touch but still seems to hit the lips creamy.

This is a solid, all around porter that is easy to drink and slightly refreshing.  If it wasn't for the nose being on the shallow side, this would be a solid 9+ beer.  I would have this a bunch if I could easily get it.  Enjoy!

Pours a crisp clear golden color with a huge lively white head.  The head pours with a fizzy highly carbonated foam that reminds me of a soda.  The head settles quickly and leaves a thin ring of foam around the edges of the glass.  Lacing sheets down the sides of the glass.

The aroma is a blast of sweet and sour apples.  It has a slight tartness to it and is amazingly fresh.

The taste is amazing.  Tart green apples with a sweetness.  The finish has a bit of a spice, maybe cinnamon.  The freshness of the apple flavor is shocking.  Reminds of picking apples right off the tree at an apple orchard.

Light body with a higher carbonation.  Watery and smooth mouth feel.

Overall I am really impressed with this beer.  This is the first apple beer that I have had and I am really enjoying it.  New Glarus really nails it with the fruit beers.  An amazing freshness between both the aroma and the taste.  A must try fruit beer!

 Black as night. Brownish, small bubble average foam.

 Brown sugar and chocolate with dark malts. Fainter notes of caramel and vanilla. It had me with the first sniff.

 Chocolate, vanilla, dark fruits, coffee, and very faint bourbon finish. Medium mouthfeel, not overwhelming weight. Definately know it was aged in oak. Sweet tasting without being too sweet.

Complexity and slow to reveal it full spectrum, sum up my experience with this brew. Could be a dessert brew that almost tastes like a mily chocolately brew treat, but without being overwrought. Tyranena keeps improving all the time.

I have been looking forward to trying this beer.  I have heard good things about it.  This past weekend my wife and I went to Wisconsin to visit family and I had a chance to pick up a 12 pack.

Pours a pale golden color with a cloudy haziness.  Half inch head of fluffy foam head.  Head dissipates quickly leaving a thin layer on top.
Nice lacing.

Aroma is nice a refreshing.  I get a bit of citrus maybe lemon, and a maltiness.

Taste is really well balanced on this beer.  I am getting a sweet lemon that is relatively mellow, but works well with the malts.  I am also getting a bit of spice.  Very subtle, but it is on the back end.  This beer is really creamy.  I get a bit of dryness on the backend.

The mouth feel on this beer is perfect.  It has a creamy feel while still being light and refreshing.  Low to medium carbonation.

Overall this beer lives up to the hype.  It is really enjoyable.  I would sum up this beer by saying it reminds me of a pale ale mixed with a Belgium ale.  Try one, you won't be disappointed!

Pours clear with three inches or more of frothy, white foam.  Retention is above average while lacing is a bit sticky.

Aroma is definitely queued in on the malt.  Caramel, toasty, and subdued bread malts each find time tantalizing the nose.

The taste is quite good.  Caramel sweetness gives way to toast and bread with a touch of bitterness for some balance while the finish carries the bitters with a roasted malt bite.

Medium body with the maltiness almost seeming to be more.  Good zing to the carbonation.

This is a really nice beer.  The twist to the style is well done and makes for a more interesting and complex beer.  Definitely a good drinker with a bit of sweat on the brow probably making this quicker to the bottom of the stomach.  Enjoy!

 Pure gold with delicate white foam head.

 Rich clove and banana, and I mean this as top shelf...deep and complex. Lemon, spice, and maybe some vanilla.

 Not too heavy, this style can easily be over-done. Medium sweetness, subtle spiciness, a very soft touch. Low medium carbonation.

 A very drinkable hefe. The aroma is big and enhances the experience, but it seems to be one of the most well balanced hefe's that I've had.

 Deep black. Full dark tan foam.

 Smoked malt with sweet chocolate. Thought I detected something else, then lost it.

 Very smokey at first, then it fades. Fairly refreshing overall, not full and finishes very dry. No sweetness and not much in the way of taste flavors. Hop bitterness build after multiple tastes. There's probably citurs hops but they blend into th big multiple hops and kind of negate each other to some extent.

 Very drinkable and kind of likeable. Not enough personality to make it great.

Pours a deep amber color with a one inch creamy white head.  Good retention on this beer with spotty lacing.

Aroma gives off dark fruits, maybe raisin or plums and sweet malts.

Taste is very similar to the aroma.  Lots of dark fruit and sweet malt flavors are well balanced and enjoyable.  I am getting some warmth on the backend as the higher ABV is showing up.

Medium body with medium carbonation. Sweet and sticky on the palate.

A very enjoyable beer.  A bit over the top on the sweetness, but still enjoyable.  Nice complexity in the dark fruits!  I'll take another bartender!

Pours cloudy.  A tan, small bubbled, inch of foam covers the top.  Retention is maybe average.

Aroma has some sweets that lend to the fruity side of things, but really a lot of caramel malts.

Taste isn't sweet up front as expected but bread and roasted malts.  Fruits, caramel, and molasses start in the middle and go to the end.  No where near as straight forward sweet like the nose.  Dark fruits really start to shine as well as some tea bitterness.

Body is a bit thick, syrupy from all the malt but not really sweet tasting.  Strange.  Carbonation is at least medium.

This beer has all the traits of the style but one thing is missing for me: drinkability.  The sweetness along with the sweet, dark fruits start to coat after about half a glass making it difficult to continue with one, let along more.  Solid beer.  Enjoy!

Another beer with a great name!

Pours a beautiful black with a hint of redness as I hold the glass up to the light.  Head is caramel in color and dissipates quickly leaving a milky swirl of caramel on top.

Aroma is interesting.  It is not an extremely strong aroma, but good and fairly complex.  I am getting chocolate, coffee, roasted malts as well as a little vanilla and maybe even a hint of cinnamon.

Taste is excellent.  Lots of dark chocolate up front that works its way into a rich roasted malt and finishes with a nice smooth coffee.

Mouth feel is a little bit light for this style beer, but not in a bad way.  Light to medium carbonation.  Smooth and sticky.

Overall I really enjoyed this beer.  It was well balanced and rich in flavor with enough complexity to make it interesting.  Wish I could get more of this one!

Pours clear with an enormous, think 98% of the pour, pristine white foam that is quite thick and compact.  Retention is above average, creating meringue on top.  Lacing is sticky and thin.

Aroma is lemon zest mixed with honey and floral notes.  There is an underlying sweet aroma.  Slight spice is there as well.

Taste is a mix of the aroma.  Floral, grass, lemon, and sweet are intertwined but lightly.  Herbal, spice, and earthiness all seem to show in the end that has a finish of surprising bitterness that lingers some.   Almost perfumed taste at times.

Very light body with mild carbonation that does spritz the tongue.  Dries the palate.

This is an interesting spin to a Saison, which has a very forgiving classification.  Quietly complex.  The same complexity might muddle, making it difficult to appreciate a lack of simplicity.  Enjoy!

 Hazy, orange amber, with full off-white foam.

 Appealing aroma of multiple notes. Fruit, light spice, and some caramely-biscuity malt.

 Don't you love it when the taste and aroma are equally fine. Equal parts of fruity malt sweetness, but not overly so. The hop bitterness is unique in that I get a hop bite in back of the tongue, but it's like an side show definately not the main attraction. The mouthfeel is dry and very clean, with good carbonation.

 A very under the radar offering from FFFs, don't know why. I find this a very enjoyable, and highly drinkable brew. It's probably the mosu IPA-ish ESB on the planet, and it totally works becuase of balance. There's a very pleasant flavor that runs through the brew that gives it a great personality. The malts and hop flavors work perfectly together. Hard to find but worth the effort.

Aroma, burnt (black patent?) over chocolates and dark malts.  Let this beer warm up.  Solid malt, no hints of sweetness or alcohol.  As warms up, the bourbon "Ish" flavor starts to come out.  That comes out as it warms up.  Smells to style and good.

Look.  Thin head that quickly turns to clean lace that clings slightly to edges. Incredibly dark, 1/8" of  translucence at edge of beer.

Taste:  Tastes like it smells, black patent, some bourbon, a lot of dark malts.  Over carbonated, which gives it that bubbly "spicy" burn.  It's over carbonated.   That bourbon smell I mentioned, I think it's anise/licorice and it leaves a... candy like bite in the end.  It's fine, but the candy element sort of makes it... a copy of a great beer rather than a great beer.   It's very good "just fine".

There is a particular element to Imperial Stouts that I am snobbish about.  Color.
Everyone is quick to label an Imperial as Jet Black, Black as Night, ect.  The blackest beers have some translucence at the edge.  You can measure perfect blackness by the translucence at the edge of the glass.  This beer hits that near perfect color.

Aroma, all the elements of a classic stout are here.  It is correct and pleasant to smell.

Having said that, this one is bad.  Flavor is off- it's sour.  It's in infected?  It tastes like bad fruit and rotten grapes.  It's not drinkable.  Sorry, I thought I was going to drink an A+ Stout.

Pours clear with a couple of inches of white, frothy foam that has good staying power.  Thicker as it recedes.  Lacing is thin but sticky, leaving a nice trail behind.

Aroma has a crisp snap to it.  Lemon leads the a wheat, grass, and yeast scents.  Probably more wheat than yeast.  Slightly sweet seemingly from a toasted bread malt backbone.

Taste is a bit sweet at first that mixes with an early bitter edge.  Lemon, citrus, and grass are center cut and dominate the beer.  Wheat finds its way but hidden.  Sweetness once again is built on bread/toasted malt.

Light end of medium body with a zippy carbonation that could be more than medium.

Enough hop presence and malt backbone to make it interesting but nothing earth shattering.  Nothing really stands out on this beer.  All facets are okay which makes it better than some.

I have to add this par a four pack of 16oz cans at $10.99 seems a bit steep for me for a blonde ale.  It seems to be the price of all there beers at the local liquor shop.  This will inhibit my desire to purchase more going forward.  Enjoy!

Pours amber in color with a thin white head.  Head settle out quickly leaving a thin layer of foam resting on top.

The aroma is a nice floral hop with a bit of yeasty notes and a sweet malt backbone.  A very appealing aroma.

The taste provides a bold citrus and floral hop upfront and works into a blend of sweet malts and yeast on the finish.  A honey type flavor lingers in the aftertaste.

Medium body with medium to high carbonation.  Creamy and smooth with a dry bitterness on the palate.

Overall,  a very nice beer with a nice hop punch that is well balanced with the sweet malts.  Very drinkable and refreshing.  A very interesting style that is done well and worth checking out! Try one!

Pours clear with a half glass of tightly packed white foam.  Retention is well above normal but doesn't leave its mark.

Aroma is clean.  Lemon, yeast, and a touch of sweet malts.  Slightly spicey and a touch of fruit.  Maybe even citrus.

Taste is lemon and other fruits that has a touch of yeast along with spicey notes that finish off the beer.  The spice and alcohol warm the throat.  Here and there late flavors of vanilla.

Medium body with mild carbonation at best.   Definitely dries the palate.

An interesting maibock that has a bit of the barrel showing through.    Alcohol and hoppiness of the beer are important to the style and this one hits it.  Enjoy!

 Clear and deep red copper, and color coordinated brownish red, full-bodied foam head. Definitely an appealing look in the glass.

 Great blend of citrus and tree fruit. Followed by solid notes of caramel and pine. The aroma is fresh and full of attractive friuts and breads.

 When the taste matches the aroma, it's the first sign of a well made brew. And Rainmaker delivers, quickly merging citrus and bready malts with tree fruitiness. The hop are forward, but not bitter, but add a sharp crispness. And I like the carbonation, present but not overdone.

 This is the second time I've had a Steel Toe, but so far it seems like the brewer puts out a well balanced and great tasting brews. The Red ale style seems to be gaining fast traction for Midwest and WC brewers. The malt profile seems to fit with aggressive use of new hop hybrids. And not overly malty as some Amber can be. Wish I had access to this beer on a regular basis. Well done.

Pours a deep ruby brown, almost black in color with a huge frothy tan head.  I had to wait a few minutes to finish the pour as the head needed time to settle.  The head settles out slowly leaving a thin layer of foam resting on top. Watery lacing.

The aroma is a blend of slightly sweet roasted malts, licorice, and light coffee.

The taste is very impressive.  Milk chocolate, roasted malts, licorice and burnt sugars all work together with some dark fruit flavors, possible cherries, showing up near the finish.  Some boozy warmth shows itself on the finish and has a warming effect between sips.

Medium body with light to medium carbonation.  Creamy and smooth  maybe a hint watery with a slight sweetness on the finish.

Overall, a very nice beer.  Great flavors that are nicely balanced and very drinkable.  Wish I knew where to find more of this one as it was given to me.  Makes for a great winter beer that will warm you up and satisfy on a chilly night. Try one!

Pours a clear pale golden color with a thin white head.  The head settles out quickly leaving a thin ring of foam around the edges of the glass.

The aroma is a big blast of floral hops with a light sweet malt and hints of clove and banana.

The taste is surprisingly fruity.  Pear, banana, apricot, peach, flavors blend with a sweet maltiness.  There is some soft bitterness with mild floral and herbal hops notes. Some yeast and light spiciness and tartness.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Sticky sweet on the lips with a mild dryness on the finish.

Overall, a very impressive beer.  The fresh fruit flavors blended with a light sweet malts and spices makes for a very enjoyable unique Belgium style beer.  Fresh, crisp and worth a try! A great way to start your day!

Pours a clear dark golden amber color with a one inch creamy white head.  The head shows great retention.  Some thick lacing sheets down the sides of the glass.

The aroma is complex and interesting.  Sweet floral hop, rye, malt, and a tropical citrus fruit.

The taste starts with a blend of rye and sweet malts and works into a spicy citrus hop flavor.  The finish is sweet with malts and a lingering spicy citrus hop flavor that is slightly bitter and dry.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  A smooth creamy mouth feel with dry finish on the palate and a sweetness on the lips.

Overall this is a solid beer with nice flavors.  Very drinkable and enjoyable.  The rye flavor is up front and center in both the aroma and the taste, which I am really enjoying.  The citrus hop flavor works very nicely with the rye.  This is the first beer that I have had from Widmer and I am impressed so far! Try one!

November 2010 bottle.

Pours with slight haze and a bit of shrapnel floating around.  White foam is thin, wavering quickly, leaving no traces.

Aroma is malty.  Caramel, toffee, dark fruits, and hints of molasses fill the nose.  Earthiness seems to be there (part of aging?) while the the high ABV is masked perfectly.

Taste is surprisingly bitter in the finish: possibly either herbal or spice hops but this could be the remnants of citrus hops as well.  The malts are there but not in the same force as the nose.  There are sweets but the hops seems to balance well.

The body is lighter than I expected from a 10% barleywine.  The carbonation is mild and there is a slight drying of the mouth.

If the taste lived up to the aroma, throwing in a bit more body, this would be one heck of a barleywine.  As it is, this is an above average offering.  The alcohol is well hidden.  Enjoy!

Pours brown in color with a thin tan head.  The head dissipates quickly, leaving a thin swirl of foam resting on top.  Very little lacing.

The aroma is a nice blend of sweet malts, bread, and nuts.

The taste follows the aroma fairly closely.  Sweet brown sugar, toffee malts, bread and nut like flavors blend together and create a very drinkable well balanced beer. A touch of spice is noticeable in the finish and the aftertaste.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Watery mouthfeel with a sweetness on the lips.

Overall, a very solid brown ale.  In fact I would say that this is one of the best traditional brown ales that I have ever had.  Everything is well  balanced and very drinkable.  A top notch brown ale from Smuttynose! Try one!

Pours a hazy amber brown color with a ruby red hue when held up to the light.  The pour produces a fluffy two finger khaki colored head that dissipates quickly, leaving a thin layer of foam resting on top. No lacing.

The aroma is a nice blend of dark fruit (cherry) with a sour tart scent that blends with a sweet caramel malt and yeast.

The taste is interesting and hard to describe.  Toasted sweet malts and tart dark fruits consisting of cherry, raisin, and prunes  with some yeast flavors mixed in as well.  Complex yet simple, but good! Some warmth from the higher abv is noticeable in the finish, but adds to the beer nicely!

Medium body with high carbonation.  Smooth yet prickly sharp from the high level of carbonation.  Slightly dry on the finish.  As this beer sits the sharp carbonation seems to mellow out and is not as ferocious.

Overall, an enjoyable beer with a simple satisfying character.  Very drinkable for a beer with a higher abv.  The flavors are not as complex and bold as I was expecting and hoping for, but this beer still maintains a very enjoyable nature and is worth a try. Try one!

Pours black with a hint of ruby red around the edges of the glass.  The pour produces a quarter inch khaki colored head that dissipates quickly leaving a thin layer of foam resting on top. Watery lacing.

The aroma is a combination of dark roasted malts, milk chocolate, bitter chocolate, and a hint of dark fruits.

The taste is semi-sweet with a blend of dark roasted malts, bitter chocolate, molasses and a bit of coffee on the finish.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  A watery mouth feel with a bitter dryness in the finish.

Overall this is an enjoyable beer with nice flavors that are well balanced.  Very drinkable for a stout since this stout has a lighter body than normal.  Try one!

Pours a cloudy pale golden amber with an attractive orange glow.  The pour produces a two inch foamy head that lingers leaving thick sheets of white lacing.

The aroma has a blend of wheat, a light pine hop, a sweet fruit possibly mangos and apricots.

The taste is very similar to the aroma with a light wheat base that works into a sweet citrus with a light mango and apricot flavor. The finish has a slightly bitter pine hop to balance out the sweetness.

Medium body with light to medium carbonation.  A smooth easy drinking mouthfeel with both a sweet and bitter slightly dry finish on the palate.  I am also noticing a bit of spice in the aftertaste.

Overall a nice offering from Sam Adams.  A nice balance of flavors with an equally nice balance between bitter and sweet.  The smooth mouthfeel makes this an easy drinker and should be an easy beer to find in most stores.  Give one a try!

The pour on this beer is a bit unusual, as the label on the bottle instructs you to "Pour Hard".  That is what I did and was really impressed with what I saw.  The hard pour resulted in a turbulent rush of carbonation that surges from the bottom of the glass.  A very "Guinness like" look as the beer slowly fades from the bottom to the top with a tan type color, leaving behind a black beer with a beautiful tightly formed tan head resting on top.  Great retention on the head as it does not move an inch once it forms and is present during the entire session. Thick foamy lacing.

The aroma is dark and creamy with a slightly sweet milk chocolate, roasted malts, and coffee.

The taste is unbelievably milky and smooth.  A lightly sweetened milk chocolate flavor that slowly melts into a darker roasted malt with a touch of bitter coffee in the finish.  The flavors are on the  mild side, but smooth and inviting at the same time.

Medium body with light carbonation.  The mouthfeel is milky and smooth and rolls off your tongue like silk.  A gentle sweetness on the aftertaste with a well balanced mild bitter. A super easy drinking beer.

Overall I am very impressed with this beer.  The appearance alone is worth trying this beer!  Left Hand Brewing has developed a really impressive way to create a "nitro" beer in a standard 12oz bottle without using widgets.  I checked the bottle after I poured it trying to figure out how they did that....but the bottle was empty except for a few bubbles.  The taste and the aroma are both very nice as well and work perfectly with the style and mouthfeel on this beer!  I would say that this is must try beer if not just its uniqueness.  Try one!

Pours a dark amber brown with a frothy light tan quarter inch head.  Good retention on the head with thick spotty lacing adorning the sides of the glass.

The aroma is sweet with caramel malts, grain, and a touch of spice.

The taste starts off dry and works into a blend of sweet malts and bread type flavors, finishing with a dry slightly bitter earthy hop.
Some yeast and tart type flavors are noticeable in the after taste.

Light to medium body with a very drinkable personality and a some what dry finish.

Another nice beer from Boulevard! A fun beer for St. Patty's Day with simple, but enjoyable, well balanced flavors.  May the luck of the Irish be with you!

Pours black with a hint of ruby red on the edges of the glass when I hold it up to the light.  A huge frothy root beer like head forms on the pour.  Good retention with thick sticky lacing forming before the first sip.

The aroma is of dark roasted malt, cocoa, and slight coffee aromas.

The taste is light with dark roasted malt, cocoa, and hint so of coffee on the finish.  Some light coffee like bitterness in the finish.  A milky smoothness

Big body with a low level of carbonation.  Creamy smooth mouth feel with a sticky sweetness on the lips.

Overall, an enjoyable easy drinking beer.  The flavors are good, but seem a little bit muted, but at the same time this seems to work with this beer.  Well balanced flavors with a super milky creamy and smooth character.  This beer goes down easy and hits the spot! Try one!

Pours clear with a more than a inch of pure white foam.  Retention is average, eventually leaving only a ring.  Lacing is sporadic but sticks.

Aroma is spice: clove, pepper, cinnamon and nutmeg are the strongest and in the order listed.   Yeast adds a layer.  Alcohol tries to hide but too strong to disappear completely.

Taste is pineapple acid up front, lots of it.  Alcohol is another big aspect.  The finish builds on the pepper and clove, making it come across as spicey hotness to a degree.

Big body of a beer - leaving legs on the glass.  Low end of medium carbonation.

I can't drink more than a half glass of this beer.  The heat and spice become too much over the course of a half glass.  Going to be very interesting how this beer ages.  Enjoy!

Aroma, bready and a hint of saisonyness.

Look, nice tight head, thick even lace, good cling.

Taste, like the aroma.  Non assertive saison-funkness.  Not over bearing, not powerful, just present.  Very- commercially accessible.  Bready pleasant flavor even through out.

Very light, slight crispness.

Easy to drink.  This would be great on a summer day when you can drink a lot and don't have anything to the next day.  It's very refreshing.

Aroma, hint of caramel maltyness.  Hint of pruneish bite.  Brown sugar sweetness.  Hint of Centennialish hop in the background.  Hint of alcohol "burness", it's a barleywine so that should be expected.  Needs to warm up for that to come out.  All the aromatics are subtle, nothing is clearly prevalent or over powering, but it's complicated, pleasant, and blended well.  It smells... subtly great.

Look, Deep caramel translucence.  As brown as red can get.  Long lasting lace with big bubbles that cling to glass for a long long time.

Taste:  This is growing on me as it warms up.  Is it warm, sure- it's a barelywine.  There's a tight carbonation, but it doesn't contribute a bubble bite.  It's caramel sweet malty beer with a hint of hop in the background.  The sweet hides *some* of the alcohol, but it's there.  This is a great beer.  The opposite of a session beer, this is a great night cap to drank slowly and appreciated.

Pours opaque with an inch of mocha, large bubble foam with a touch of froth on top.  Retention is good while lacing is sporadic at best.

Aroma is a bit muted for a Russian imperial stout.  Malty: chocolate is the front runner, licorice, and caramel/brown sugar.

Taste is a copy of the aroma.  Chocolate, that is a bit bitter, followed by licorice, caramel, and bitterness in the finish.

Medium body with the same amount of carbonation.  "Juicy" for a stout,  yet dry.

A light end of the spectrum for a RIS.  The lighter body and lack of aroma/flavor just don't do the style justice.  Overall a nice beer.  Enjoy!

From a 2010 bottle.

Pours opaque with ruby highlights t the edges.  Deep tan foam with minimal staying power. Nary any lacing.

Aroma of percolating coffee.  Roasted malts and hints of milk chocolate lend some depth as well as reminders of the base porter.

If I drank coffee, this is what I believe morning coffee, that was carbonated, would be like.  The coffee is creamy with roasted and chocolate milk notes.  Caramel sweetness builds towards the finish.

Medium light body with a stronger than I would like carbonation in a dark beer.  Dries the palate.

Quite the tasty beer.  A nice balance of coffee and porter: having the base beer come through is important to me.  Easy to drink.  Nice to not see this taken over by the coffee or having to bring this one up to '11' becoming an imperial.  Enjoy!

From a 2010 bottle.

Pours clear with little to no off-white foam to cover, making comments about lacing and retention utterly useless.

Aroma is caramel/toffee sweet malt to lead.  Trailers of dark fruits, most notably plum and raisin, banana, bread, and stints of alcohol.

Slightly sweet up front, giving way to raisin and plum in the middle.  Banana is muted as it struggles against the stronger flavors.  Finish a touch sweet.

Carbonation builds in the middle, leaving a zesty feel to the lips.  Body is medium, including some lip smacking residual sweetness, and a bit dry.

I really struggle with this style as a whole.  I have only had one Dubbel that I have really liked; a Belgian abbey.  This is okay but doesn't really jump out at me.  Seems more Americanized.  Enjoy!

Pours a deep golden color with a hint of orange.  Half inch white head that dissipates quickly leaving a thin swirl of milky foam on top.  Very little lacing.

Aroma is a blend of spice, clove and banana with a bready character.  Very nice aroma.  Remindes me a little bit of banana bread.

Taste starts with a mix of malts and banana and floral flavors with the spice joining in the finish.  Sweet and slightly sour at the same time.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Slightly dry on the palate.

Overall this is an enjoyable beer.  I am not sure that I have had this style before, but I am enjoying it.  Not a style that I would seek out all the time, but it's a nice change of pace.  Give one a whirl!

 Pure, deep gold, with a slight amount of yeast. Soft and delicate white foam, that only remains as a narrow ring around my snifter.

 Sour and then big grape notes, I picture green grapes. Seems sophisticated and very wine like. Where the sour, and fermented grapes, and wood, and alcohol meet, it almost comes across as a liquer

 Perfectly balanced. The sour is not overly tart, very semi sweet, and the alcohol is an accent. No funkiness as sometimes appears in this style. Has oak, but muted vanilla. Medium both in mouthfeel and carbonation.

 Allagash is at the top of the craft brewing world in terms of quality. This brew is very rare and that's too bad. You must be ready for a wine
 experience, but with that said it's a total complex experience. Hope you are lucky enough to try this someday.

From a 2012-12-21 bottle.

Pours clear with a half inch of white foam.  Retention is normal at best while lacing leaves little to talk about.

Aroma is a bit beat down.  This beer isn't at its prime.  The hops, which you can tell were the highlight of the beer, have started to fade, leaving vegetal, dank hops in their wake.  Citrus, floral and possibly pine hops were here once upon a time.  Almost no sweetness.

Taste follows the nose.  Little in the way of fresh hops.  Hop oils breath deeply into the flavor.  Bitterness is held in check, not killing the palate.

Medium body with the oils adding.  Carbonation is medium.  Dry.

Even though I drank it on the date it was too far gone.  This one needs to be drank a week or two before the due date or suffer old hop wrath.  Enjoy!

 The brown is so deep that it's practically black. Foam is a viscous coating of dark khaki.

 A close mash up of toasty malts, green coffee beans, and bitter bakers chocolate.  Some breads notes in the background. At some level I could say It smells like a dessert pastry.

 My initial impression is that the taste does match the aromas. No doubt the coffee is most pronounced.  Nice flavored of chocolate and caramel from big malt build. No bitterness beyond the coffee notes, and blends well to completely hold the sweetness in check. Great balance between slightly creamy and dryness. The wide spread of big favors is here, but in a curiously subtle maner.

Overall: Very well made brew, and really appealing on a wet and freezing January night. I would suggest one seek out a sampling of this beer.

A-Bright, but deep orange amber. Nice full head of off-white tiny bubbles of medium retention. And medium amount of lacing.

S-Rich tree fruit, caramel, and bready maltiness. .

T-Fresh, hop bite, very fair malt sweetness.Definately get spiciness, light fruit, and a soft caramel taste. Medium mouthfeel, sort of creamy and strongly carbonated.

D-This brews got it own personality, and I like it. I don't want to oversell it's uniqueness, but it's a worthy IPA, has a nice hop profile,  and definately in my Top 25 favs. There's a complexity that makes it interesting. Perhaps not all flav notes are perfect, but it's absolutely sessionable.

Had a glass at Darkness Day 2010 off of a free pour from Surly.   Was probably more like an eight ounce pour, share with Mark.

Poured clear but slightly opaque into a plastic cup.  Tan, frothy foam was just a thick as the pour.  Retention was outstanding with some nice wave like and sticky lacing.

Aroma wasn't that strong but it was drank outside, so that could have something to do with it.  Roasted, coffee, vanilla, and maybe even a little bit left of center wildness.

Taste was very similar.  Nothing really fantastic came out here but nothing took away from it either.

Body was probably the toughest to deal with as I expected more: light, maybe heavy end of light body.  Carbonation was okay.

Based on all the hype that seemed to go through the crowd when this beer when on tap: disappointed.  Definitely see where it gets it basis from Bender but just comes a bit thin.  I was hoping a limited beer with hype would live up to it - no such luck.  Still solid.  Enjoy!

Pours a nice clear straw color with a nice thick inch and a half head.  Head is light and foamy and has good retention.  Nice thick sticky lacing.

Aroma is right on the money for me.  Lot of sweet citrus and floral hops.  The aroma is really clean and refreshing and draws me in.

Taste is perfect and follows the aroma very closely.  A nice balance of sweet citrus hops and a hint of floral and pine hops noticeable on the backend.  Really well balanced and a very easy drinking brew.

Mouth feel light with medium carbonation.

Overall I am really impress with this beer.  A very easy drinking beer with just the right balance all the way around.  Definitely a big winner in my book!

Cloudy with some floaties brought on by a vigorous pour.  The foam is thick, off-white, and about 1.5 inches of goodness.  Retention is about average with the foam frothing up a bit.  Lacing is spotty and sticky.

Aroma is a blast of floral and citrus hops on top of caramel, sweet malts.  Pleasant but not overly complex.

Taste is more of the same.  The malt is forward and lasting.  The hops join in the middle and last into the finish, bringing waves of inspiring floral and mild citrus hop flavors.  Slight bitterness but not lasting.

Light body with a thin but crisp carbonation that gives a refreshing sense to the beer.

A likable beer that doesn't do anything impressive or off the wall as Short's has been known to do.  The floral hop profile is the highlight of the beer while the rest is about average.  Enjoy!

April 7, 2008 bottle numbered 308.

Pours mostly opaque with minimal tan foam.  Retention is minimal while lacing doesn't exist.

Aroma is big on dark fruit raisins for sure, maybe dates, and others.  Soy sauce but not quite and a touch of alcohol.

Taste is malt with some sweetness that seems to have mellowed.  Dark fruits are once again the spotlight.

Barely any carbonation with a huge, thick, sticky body.  Leaves the lips stuck together.

Smooth drinking for such a big barley wine, the age has done it some good.  But in order to get huge there needs to be lots of sweet malts which lead to the cloying part of this beer.  The only difficult part of this one.  Enjoy!

Just another "light" beer........goes down easy on a hot night.

Had on tap at the brewery.

Pours slightly hazed with a finger of almost white foam.  Retention and lacing are minimal.

Aroma is of citrus and pine resin hops.  They are really nice here.  Sweet caramel malts are there for balance and the backbone of the beer.  I thought I got hits of toasted notes here and there also.

Taste is sweet up front with caramel.  Next comes a transition to toasted flavors and citrus hops.  Citrus is strong in the end with pine playing a supportive roll but lingering into the finish bringing on a strong bite.

Light end of medium body with average carbonation.  Of course it finishes dry with all the hops.

This is a solid offering.  I am sorry I haven't had the chance to try the other 52 offerings if they approach this offering.  The bitter end isn't that strong that it takes away from an ease to drinking.  Enjoy!

Pours cloudy with many floaties from a twelve ounce bottle.  Big off-white foam that thickens as it recedes nicely.  Thick, sticky lacing line the walls of the glass throughout.

Aroma is centered on citrus hop mainly of the grapefruit variety.  Caramel and bread malts form the backbone.  Alcohol is there too.

Taste follows the nose perfectly.  Sweetness delivered and used to help balance the large amount of bittering hops.  Grapefruit is in the taste and in the finish with a bitter bite that is rough but not tough.

Body is medium with a almost creamy quality that seems to come from the hops.  Medium carbonation while the drink dries the palate.

Wow!  Great tip from the beer store while in Florida on this beer.  I was hesitant at first but can see why the recommendation.  Now why didn't I grab more than one bottle?  Enjoy!

Poured slightly cloudy with a quarter inch of slightly off-white foam.  Surprisingly the retention held on for quite some time in spite its small stature.  Lacing was spotty but sticky.

Aroma is a tall order of hops.  Amarillo hops with citrus, mango, and floral.  A bit of sweet malt make up the backbone.

Taste sort of starts a bit slow with a touch of sweet that is almost syrup in quality.  Hops start in the middle with a big dose of orange and some heat from the alcohol.  Hops build even more in the into the finish carrying a bite of bitterness.  Pine and citrus are the biggest players.

Big body for a DIPA with very little carbonation.  Dries the palate while being very close to coating like a sticky mess.

Drinkable for a big beer but the hops do ruin the palate maliciously.  I keep giving Dogfish another try and they are nothing but average to me.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque with minimal tan foam.  Retention and lacing aren't really much but believe this to be because of the pour from the tap.

Aroma was pretty much focussed on roasted malt.  Simple, straight forward, and not much else going on.  Not complex.

Taste was more of the same: roasted malt that didn't over commit.  Coffee and chocolate come through also but on the minor side.

Medium body and maybe lighter.  Carbonation is about on average.

A good offering that doesn't anything crazy with the style or the beer itself.  I will have it again but not my favorite beer from Cigar City.  Enjoy!

The pour yielded all foam in my glas sixteen ounces of it.  It made me think this might be an infected beer, especially when the second pour yielded the same.  Retention was out of this world as the foam held up longer than a marathon runner.

Aroma...

Stopping the review here as I tasted the beer to see what was happening and it just wasn't right.  I am not saying that it was tart but the flavors and aromas didn't match what I had been ready.  Hopefully I will get another chance to try this one in the future.  Enjoy!

Pours a cloudy pale amber color with a half inch white head.  Head dissipates quickly leaving a thin layer of white foam on top. Watery lacing.

Aroma is orange citrus and spice with a bit of bread and yeast.

Taste is very mild and watery.  Upfront I taste a floral hop that works into some bready yeast flavors with a spice on the backend.

Light body with a watery mouthfeel.  Low carbonation.

Overall, I am a little disappointed.  It's not bad; I guess I was expecting something different.  The spice flavor is strong on the backend and leaves me feeling like this beer is a little off balance.  After all that complaining, I have to say that I would have another, it grows on me as I drink it.

Received on trade, collector labeled  3-2011.

 Dirty amber brown, can't really see through. Soft, small bubble foam that remained a while.

 Got that funky wild smell, and then a unique fruitiness in the background. Scot thinks it reminds him of Lost Abbey-Red Poppy.

 Tart and sour, again with the melange of fruits and flowers. Really complicated. A tad weird in the bitterness. Alcohol burn isn't really there, but some alcohol taste.

 I respect the tartness and the mix of a ton of ingrediants. Not sure the taste works 100%, a few off flavors to me. But, I'd drink it wjen offered.

Pours clear with a half glass of thick, tan foam.  Retention is above average.  Lacing is sporadic but sticky with staying power.

Aroma has citrus written all over it will some pine hops backing it up.  Caramel malts form the backbone that the hops sit on.  Don't be surprised if you mistake for an IPA by aroma only.

Taste is sweet up front with hops joining in the middle, through to the end and into the finish.  Hops are mainly citru orange, apricot, and mango.  The finish is slightly sweet coinciding with a bitter bite that is pleasant with some staying power.

Medium body with a medium carbonation that fits with a creamy center.

One of the finer amber ales I have had.  Maybe it is the hops, and it probably is, as this beer is easy to drink.  The ABV is hidden well and makes it dangerously easy to drink on another hot, humid day in the mid west.  Enjoy!

Pours a cloudy deep golden color.  Thin white head that dissipates quickly leaving just a small white ring around the edges of the glass.  No lacing.

Aroma is really nice.  Reminds me of fall.  I am getting lots of spices on the first sniff.  Clove, nutmeg, ginger are all upfront with a nice mellow pumpkin aroma blended in.

Taste is not as strong as the aroma, but is still very nice.  This beer has a nice pumpkin pie type flavor.  Lots of spices that tend to blend into the pumpkin flavor giving it a pretty consistent flavor.  A nice bready malt works its way into the flavors of this beer as well.

Light to medium body with medium carbonation.  Very smooth and creamy on the palate.  A tingling spice on the finish.

Overall an enjoyable fun beer.  Lots of nice flavors that fit well with the fall season.  Not something that I would drink very much of, but I am glad I gave it a try.

 Unique pale gold, that's really pale and hazy. Normal off-white color with short retention

 Citrus, malt, apples, and light caramel. Really big for a Pale Ale, but then disapated quickly.

 This is a spunky APA, citrus (light grapefruit), fruity malt sweetness, some spicy hop bite...all spun into a very drinkable mix. Slightly dry and average cabonation.

 I like this brew, not sure I love it. Hop profile is where I like and it's not too sweet. Where this brew goes slightly off track in the balancing of flavors, not sure that all are working in perfect compliment of each other. But I'll definately have again...when I can get it.

Pours a cloudy golden color with a half inch head.  Head dissipates quickly leaving a milky swirl on top.

Aroma is pine and citrus hops with a hint of caramel and spice.

Taste is a great! Lots of pine and citrus hops.  This beer starts out with very little taste when it first hits my mouth; the middle gives me a nice pine hop and works its way into a citrus (maybe grapefruit?) with a slightly bitter finish.  Has a malty balance in there somewhere.  I feel like this beer is right on the edge of a super hop bomb, but the malts mellow out the hops a little bit and keeps me wanting just a little more blast of hoppy flavor.

Mouth feel is light, but has a creamy feel to it.  Medium to high carbonation.

Overall I really enjoyed this beer.  I enjoyed the balance between the hops and the malts.  This beer is complex and refreshing.

 Deep black, brown,

 My initial impression is molasses and dried figs. The malt I get is like black bread. Overall almost European desserts flavor.

 Malt is semi-sweet, then dark bakers chocolate with licorice.

 Re-read label and realized it was an Oatmeal Imperial. And, it was 3 or 4 years old. Good, not great.

Pours a clear medium amber with a half inch cream colored head.  Spotty lacing.

The aroma is a combination of sweet malt with a touch of spice and honey.  Creamy, gentle, and inviting aromas.

The taste is creamy and smooth, with sweet malt creating the backbone of this beer along side a light spice.  A nice level of complexity on this beer as I taste a light vanilla, caramel, and cinnamon as well as a bit of dark fruit showing itself as well.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Creamy smooth mouth feel with a slightly dry finish.

Overall I really like this beer.  It is very complex without being in your face with the flavors.  A very nice balance of complexity and simplicity!  A great winter beer that does not go over the top with excessive spices.  Try this one!

Pours a dark brown, almost black color with a one inch khaki colored head.  The head settles out leaving a thin tightly formed layer resting on top.  Lots of thick lacing that drapes the sides of the glass.

The aroma is big on pine and citrus (maybe grapefruit) with slight sourness blended with a dark roasted scent and dark chocolate.  A very nice aroma!

The taste is dark and rich starting with a pine and citrus hop flavor that works into a blend of dark fruit, chocolate, molasses and coffee.  The finish is sweet and rich.

Medium body with light to medium carbonation.  Creamy and dry on the palate with a sweetness on the lips and in the aftertaste.

Overall, a big winner in my book!  A really nice stout with the usual Three Floyds hopped up spin on things!  Very well balanced with the dark rich flavors working perfectly with the citrus and pine hops.  The dry mouthfeel is balanced nicely with a sweetness and keeps me coming back for another sip!  A tasty brew that I will have again! Try one!

 Deep and rich, the definition of gold. Very full, small and delicate white foam, overall a very classy look in my snifter.

 Spiced pine, is unbelieveably unique and eticing. Deeper investigation reveals scents of orangey grapefruit

 A very refreshing blast of grapefruit and I mean citrusy in the best way. A little note of spice (yeah from hops, but it's coriander like), and a crisp dry cut, that lends further proof of the sopistication of this brew. The abv is moderate give the style.

 A lesser know sibling of the Elder son of RR. There's a very faint carmelization, that's subtley in the background to all the hops fireworks. Is that the element that makes this brew just about perfect. My last words about this Pig is that it's all harmony and balance to the extreme. Get some now.

Pours crystal clear with a finger or more of white foam.  Retention is good for Pils style beer, becoming a bit more frothy as it recedes, very un-pils like.  Nice lacing.

Aroma is mellow sweet.  Herbal and grassy hops lend to that "skunky" pils scent.

Taste isn't much more eventful.  Soft, sweet malt with hops starting to build in the middle.  The end brings a low but lingering hop presence.

Light body with medium carbonation.

I don't like pilsners.  The American macro-brew boys have eternally turned me away.  This is okay and definitely on the better side of those beers.  The aroma and flavor just bring bad thoughts.  Enjoy!

Pours almost completely opaque with minimal tan foam to cover.  As expected, staying power and lacing are devoid.

Aroma is malt forward.  The grain base is highlighted with roasted malt.

Taste is about the same.  Roasted malt comes through.  Sweet, caramel, and toffee add.  Light corn in there as well.

Light body with light carbonation.

The best of the four Minahs beers I tasted.  An average beer.  The corn flavor seems ill placed.  Enjoy!

Pours a clear deep brown color with a hint of ruby red and a huge frothy tan head.  The head needed time to settle before I could finish pouring the rest of the beer into the glass. Spotty lacing.

The aroma is on the lighter side, but I get nice roasted malts as well as a solid coffee scent.

The taste is big on the roasted malt with a chocolate flavor mingling with coffee.  A slight sweetness on the palate.  The aftertaste seems to hold the most flavors with the coffee coming in strong with a mild bitterness.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  A slightly sweet sticky mouth feel, but at the same time somewhat watery for a stout.

Overall this is an enjoyable beer.  Nice flavors, well balanced and very drinkable.  This stout is relatively mellow in comparison to a lot of stouts that I have had, but makes it an easy drinking, satisfying beer on a cold winter night.  Try one!

Pours a cloudy deep yellow with a nice thick heavy head.

The Aroma is rich in citrus and spice with a hint of yeast and white grapes.

Taste is similar to the aroma with lots of citrus, spice, yeast and a dry white grape feel on the tongue.

Overall and very enjoyable well balanced beer. Goose Island has another winner!

 Clear deep bronze amber.  Off-white average foam quickly disaptes.

 Floral than malty toffee, and finally mix of faint orange and pear.

 Really nice balance of fruit, malt, and low citrusy hop bite. Low sweetness and the low side of medium mouthfeel and carbonation.

 Great flavors mix, on the citrus floral side of things. It sounds like a cliche but this has a really good balance of all elements. Highly drinkable for an Imperial.

Pours clear with a pure white, inch high foam.  Meringue forms as the foam casually recedes.  Lacing is sporadic but sticky.

Aroma is light but has wheat and lemon grass.  Grainy malt and honey hints are there too.

Taste is about the same.  Wheat, grain malt, lemon grass, and honey all mingle leaving a honey/grain mix on the tongue.

Light body with medium carbonation with a drying of the palate.

Cans make this beer easy to bring to a warm summer spot but the beer isn't quite to style.  Enjoy!

 Deep mahagony brown with nice full dark kakai foam head.

 Faint scents.  Sweet orchard fruit. I don't get the malt and smokiness that my fellow tasters are detecting. Some bitter chocolate notes emerge in the background.

 Chocolatey malt and low fruit sweetness. Full carbonation. Full mouthfeel, and ever so slight oiliness. Alcohol is completly masked. I'd also call it fully balanced, but a distinct bitterness lingers in the after taste. Not sure it's hop bitterness though.

 Started to drink it too cold, and it became more flavorfull as it warmed. The knock I have is the a bitter aftertaste that might be attributed to dark bitter chocolate. Want to like this mjore than I did. Perhaps aging will benefit this brew. I still think Brian S. at Flossmoor is a great brewer.

 Hzay golden straw, with small bubble white foam with low retention.

 Distinctively hopped up brew. Very much to my citrusy, west coast loving taste buds. The citrus is tangerine, grapefruit, and a touch of earthiness.

 Much lighter touch than the aroma would suggest. Malts in the background, definately not a sweet beer, but skews to sessionable. The earthy hoppiness is probably the most dominate. But, overall well balanced. Well carbonated, and a low mouthfeel. After taste of hop bitterness, but not a bite.

 Very good brew. The aroma is very seducing for hop lovers, then ultimately it's a very sessionable IPA. Plus, it's brewed and served at Petosky's City Park Grill, a reputed hang-out of Ernest Hemingway in the day. How could a real man turn down one of these.

At least a three year old bottle.

Pours clear with a third a glass (tulip) of tan, large bubbled foam.  Retention is up there with the best of them, creating a milky frothiness.  Lacing, at times, was thick and coating.

Aroma is nothing fantastic.  Can't find any bourbon remnant vanilla, oak, bourbon, etc.  Dark frui fig and/or raisin, not much else.   Beginnings of "age" possibly.

Taste follows the nose: not much at all.  Toffee and dark fruit fig and currants.  Sweet.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  The sweets try to keep the palate wet but it still dries, possibly the barrel aging.

The taste is a bit better than the aroma but the aroma wasn't much.  The taste has an estery sweetness that makes it hard to drink.  Nothing here that would pull you back again.  Enjoy!

Pours black in color with hints of ruby red around the edges of the glass.  The pour produces a two finger dark tan frothy head that settles out  to form a thin layer of foam resting on top. Thick heavy lacing sheets the edges of the glass.

The aroma is complex and inviting. Dark roasted malts come out the strongest with hints of chocolate and coffee along side a fairly bold blend of citrus and floral hops.

The taste is sweet upfront and works into dark roasted malts with the citrus hops quickly following and continuing into the finish.  A nice blend of chocolate and bitter coffee blend nicely with the sharp citrus hop flavor.

Big body with medium carbonation.  Creamy and smooth on the palate.

Overall an impressive beer from Victory.  Solid flavors that are well balanced and rock solid mouth feel.  Nice big beer that you could make a meal out of.  If you enjoy a hopped up spin on your stouts, add this one to your must try list!

 Solid black, Small bubble, but kind of thick tan foam.

 Chocolate, coffee, and roasted malt. The chocolate is probably the most forward and smells like you could bake this brew into something. The more I sniff this the more dark coffe notes I get.

 Very cool mix of dark flavors. Seems a tad thin at first but then the flavors start to flow. Dark semi-sweet chocolate, then coffee, and a bit of spice. The hops flow into the complexity, but don't stand out either in flavor nor bitterness. Mouthfeel is right for me and so is the carbonation.

 One of the most drinkable Imperial Stouts that I've had. And combined the drinkability is a huge array of interesting flavors.  Creamy and smooth, and creates it's own niche u=in the Imperial Stout world. I would love to sit in a tavern on a winter night and drink a few of these.

Pours with a touch of chill haze.  An inch of white foam is rather fleeting.  Lacing is sticky, throughout and sporadic.

Aroma is thick with tropical fruits.  Pineapple, melon, mango and grapefruit.  Dank pine.  Malt takes a back seat but pale sweetness creates the backbone: simple.

Taste doesn't bring it like the aroma but is still solid.  Lightly sweet up front, mingling with a transition to hops in the middle.  More tropical fruit (grapefruit, mango and pineapple), splashed with pine.  Finishes  towards the dry side.  Bitterness that lingers and builds throughout.

Medium body with a well balanced carbonation.  Dries the palate.

Haven't had a Central Waters beer in while, let alone a limited release.  A solid APA.  If I would have known it would have been this good, I would have picked up several more.  The hops seem to be lead by citra.   Always strikes a cord with me.  Get it before it gets old.  Drinking well right now.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with minimal white head.

Aroma has slight wine like notes that are quickly covered by caramely sweetness.

Taste has hints of Brett but is sweet.  The finish is cloyingly sweet.  Lingers.  Oak.

Medium body with good carbonation.

Wanted this beer to be fantastic but far from it.  The candy and caramel like sweetness is too much throughout.  Enjoy!

Poured clear but with a bunch of floating particles throughout.  Minimal white foam that quickly became a mere collar around the glass.

Aroma is wheat and alcohol foremost.  The alcohol is hiding some bourbon, which is more like whiskey, and oak.

Taste is slightly sweet, maple, and whiskey.  The taste is definitely more whiskey than bourbon.  Oak and vanilla play from the middle to the end along with butter scotch (not my favorite).  There is also a whiskey presence in the finish.

Big bodied beer with mild, at best, carbonation.  A bit creamy and drying.

I have to admit up front I expected more from this beer but I am not overly impressed.  Especially with the chase that I had to give to get it.  I am going to let the rest age a while and see if it smooths out the edges.  Enjoy!

Pours slightly opaque but clear around the edges as the beer is dark.  Off-white foam is a finger thick.  Retention and lacing are minimal.

Lots of malt on the nose.  Caramel, toffee, toast, and bread.  Not overwhelmingly sweet smelling though.  Good balance between the malts.  Floral initially becoming more fruity as it warms (yeast?).

Taste is almost identical to the nose.  Caramel, toffee and bread carry this beer.  The fruitiness leans more towards the yeast than hops.  No bitterness.  Not cloying either.  A bit dry.

Medium body with lighter carbonation, on purpose, to help dry the beer and keep the mouth feel from growing.

An average beer.   Nothing is wrong with it.  Preference is towards modern amber ales with a solid hop presence (red IPA).  Wouldn't have it again but, once again, an average to slightly above average offering.  Enjoy!

Pours quite clear.  Half inch of off-white foam coats.  Retention, no, but there is a good amount of lacing throughout.  Thin, jagged, sticky lines left behind with each sip.

Aroma is citrus foremost.  Bread.  Light sweet malt.  Muted overall.

Taste is more malt forward with a late arriving, lingering bitterness.  Citrus and faint floral hops mingle with caramel, toast and biscuit malts.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Crisp.  Dries out the palate over time.

Overall the beer is above average.  A bit old school on the amount of lingering bitterness, which doesn't make it bad.  Malt forward with the hops accenting.  Probably different than most want out of a "modern" IPA but a nice change of pace.  Enjoy!

Collaboration between Half Acre and Three Floyds.

Poured with a bit of a chill haze.  Minimal head, lacing, and retention.  Nothing crazy in the glass.

Aroma is sweet malt up front.  Honey (a touch), lightly toasted grain, and floral hops round out the scent.  Interesting and probably deeper than I am mentioning.

Taste is spicey, almost pepper in the finish that stays on the tongue rather than bitterness.  The yeast is there with some bread and even cereal type of malt profile.

Body is very light with minimal carbonation.

There is a lot going on with this beer.  It is complex, yet light with good sweetness and not syrupy.  Enjoy!

Pours a dark ruby brown color with a big tan frothy head.  Good retention on the head.  Plenty of nice lacing on this beer.

Aroma is simple and straight forward.  Coffee is pretty much all I am getting.  Reminds me of the aromas that you get when cleaning out the coffee filter, strong, slightly bitter coffee aromas.

Taste is big and bold in the coffee flavors.  My parents had a coffee percolator when I was a kid. The coffee flavors in this beer remind me of that style coffee.  I guess that explains the name!  Fairly sweet from start to finish.

Light body with light carbonation.  Creamy mouthfeel, with a slight dryness on the finish.

This beer is interesting.  I like it, but it tends to be kind of a wild beer that I don't see myself having very often.  Worth a try if you like coffee.

A-Dark side of Medium Amber. Tan foam head quickly disapted.

S-Deep carmelized, brown sugar, and rich bourbon. Maybe best aroma of all time.

T-Malt sweetness, followed by bourbon. There's a bunch of other notes that are typical of a bourbon aged brews like; vanilla, toffee, raisin, prunes, etc. Much thinner than I'd expect, and very low carbonation, but this is a three year old bottle.

D-The initial aroma was really appealing, but the subsequent tastings didn't match for me. Overall, the taste that dominated was alcohol / whiskey. which would have been great if off-set by other flavors and textures. It seemed just too thin in mouthfeel and tastes, other than alcohol. In isolation of other great bourbon barrel aged brews I'd probably rate it higher, but it's in a tough league.

A-Clear gold. White foam head disappeared quickly.

S-First impression was that it smells like an after shave lotion. I was warned, it does have Spicey in it's name. After warming and subsequant sniffs, it became more appealing. Coriander, then some lemon citrus, and then grains (Wheat?).

T-Expected the worse and was pleasantly surprised. Mega taste inputs, but in a weird way they seem to work together. It's  the most peppery brew I've had, but the wheat kinds of mutes and it helps there no sweetness. Then the lemony and orange citrus comes in.

D-I'll admit my prejudices, and I'm a spice phobic when it comes to beer. But, this brew was much better than I excpected. The multitude of aroma and flavor notes work pretty well together. And in the end this is a fairly refreshing wheat beer, that would be enjoyable on a hot summer day. Could it dial down the coriander, YES. But, kudos to Shorts for keeping a dozen or so plates spinning together in the air.

New tasting 9/30/2010
Second tasting of this brew. I would not change any of my opinions from the original review. Only thing I'd change would be to rate it in the low - mid 6's.

A-Amber Brown with slightg red tint. Normal larger bubbly, tan head with average retention.

S-Very seductive. Grapefruity, with some orange, then sweet malt, and faint toffee notes.

T-Semi-sweetness, then some hop bite, and perhaps some spiciness. But the hop bitterness is in no way lingering. And, with more sips the grapefruit flavor totally balances out any sweetness or bitterness. Creamy taste, but mouthfeel is slightly thin.

D-This is a sophisticated brown ale. But, it also easy to drink for a "bitter" brown, and I could definately drink it year round. It's a West Coast version in my opinion, and for me that's totally meant as a compliment.

A-Golden, hazy yellow-gold. Normal, tiny bubble, white foam head quickly disapates.

S-Grassy, grainy, lemony.

T-Refreshing, biscuity, heavy carbonation, and a tad of lemony tartness.

D-I think it's very drinkable, just not enough personality to make it memorable. There's not a thing wrong with the brew, it's very light and refreshing. No style consideration to meet, as it's described as a English Pale Wheat Ale, which isn't a known style.

Poured clear into a pint glass.  A bit more than an inch of tan, thick foam covered the amber hued liquid.

Aroma is big on caramel malt but there is plenty of others to go aroun molasses, tropical fruit, and even some pine hops.

Taste is a entire heap of complexity.  Caramel, toffee, vanilla, hops, bitterness, molasses, tropical fruit, and some hop resin.   Some dark fruits and an alcohol burn are there too.

Medium body but probably bigger with a zingy carbonation.  A bit viscous and even creamy.  A lot of sweet balanced by a big hop offering.

Has some relations to IIPA and even a barley wine.  This is a big beer and surprisingly complex.  Too much alcohol and "bigness" for this beer to really have more than one, maybe two.  When we were at the Bell's tour, they said this was a Amber with some extra.  I guess this one goes to 11.  Enjoy!

Poured somewhat cloudy with a good inch of off-white foam from my usual vigorous pour.  Retention was okay at best.  Lacing, eh, none.

Aroma is big on fruits and spice.  Quite nice ;)  Some dark fruits with banana.  Once of the main spices is clove.

Taste follows.  A bit of sweetness up front then come the fruits and spice.  Acrid could be mildly be attached to the flavor as I almost sense a touch of tart, but it might be me wishing I had another sour beer.  Banana and clove are nicely mixed.

A medium body that might be a little zealous but the carbonation is minimal at best.  A bit dry on the finish too.

A good drinking beer that might have a touch of unchecked sweetness at the end of the taste.  Other than that a really nice and flavorful beer that is darn tasty.  Enjoy!

Pours slightly cloudy with minimal, pristine white foam.  Retention is a 40-yard dash with no lacing.

Aroma is spice, coriander, wheat, and Belgian yeast.  No orange that I noticed.  Crisp.

Taste is light but with a nice coriander, lemon, and wheat flavor.  Belgian yeast is there but ever so slightly.  Spicey hops finish off the beer with really no hop bite at all.

Light on the body but has a nice prickly carbonation to make it feel bigger.  Refreshing to say the least.

I had a Mother Earth beer earlier today and wasn't completely impressed, this beer though has turned me though.  It could still do with a little less filtering of the wheat to maybe get a bit bigger beer.  Easy and fun to drink.  Enjoy!

 Dark honey hued Medium Amber. Semi-thick small bubble head of tan color.

 First my nose encountered a spicey malt sweetness.Maybe banana or clove.Then some fruit and floral notes in the background, perhaps the americanization IPA influence.

 Big flavorful profile, kind of a mini-blast of the flavor spectrum that would include for me: spice, sweet malt, and hop bitterness. Then comes a very clean and dry mouthfeel. Lingering in the aftermath is a tarty tree fruitiness and a hop bite.

 This may be the most sophisticated brew that I've had of the Tyranena's I've tried. I'm intrigued by the bottle labels description of this being a Wisconsin Belique-style. It's my perception that one of the flav notes is from the grain that was grown and malted in Wisc. The malt profile to me is a distinct prairie wheat taste that evokes fresh cut hay and rye notes. This brew shows that Tyranena is keeping up with their neighbors the Careys (Deb & Dan of New Glarus). Hat's off to the evolving skills of the Tyranena brew team.

Pours clear with a half inch of white foam.  Retention isn't the strong suit.  Light lacing but thick when it sticks.

Aroma is ginormous with grapefruit hops.  Mango with other fruits come on loud and clear.  Light caramel sweetness forms the backbone while a touch of alcohol is there.

Taste is a little sweet but not much.  Hops are mango, grapefruit, and tropical fruits that are part of the entire drink.  Very slight bitterness that is fruity but doesn't linger.  Mango and grapefruit hold on to the palate.

Medium body with a light carbonation.  Carbonation really isn't needed as the beer has plenty going on.  Dries the palate.

Holy shit is that balanced.  I thought this beer was going to be off the charts over the top.  Instead it drinks unbelievably well without and unrefined edges.  Awesome.  Enjoy!

Pours an opaque black color with a hint of ruby red around the edges of the glass.  The pour produces a quarter inch tan head that quickly settles out leaving a thin layer of foam resting on top. Some sticky lacing is present.

The aroma is rich with dark roasted malts, bitter chocolate, and coffee.  A very pleasing aroma.

The taste is similar to the aroma with big roasted malts and bitter chocolate and coffee.  Finishes with a dark bitter coffee flavor and a touch of hops.

Light to medium body with a medium to high carbonation for this style.  The carbonation has a sharpness that cuts through the creamy mouth feel leaving a tingling feeling on the tongue.  A lighter body stout than I was expecting.

An easy drinking beer with a nice aroma and tasty dark flavors.  The lighter body of this stout makes it very drinkable.  An enjoyable beer! Try one!

First beer review here, so go easy on me!

First off this beer has a nice deep rich golden color with a bit of haziness.  It pours smooth with very little head and very low in retention.

The first few sniffs give me a very strong citrus and pine aromas.

The first few sips are smooth with strong hoppy notes, medium on carbonation and rich in flavor.  I got a really nice citrus flavor that reminded me a little bit of mangos.  This beer has some bitterness to it, but it does not last long.

Over all this is a great beer.  Full of rich citrus hops and is very drinkable.

Found this beer at my local liquor store.   Looking forward to trying it as I have never had this style before.

Pours a deep amber with nice a two inch head.  Medium retention with spotty lacing.

Aroma is mellow with mostly bready toasted  caramel malt.

Taste is really mellow.  The taste is very similar to the aroma.  Lots of bready caramel malt. A sweetness with a mellow grain.

Medium body low carbonation.  Mouth feel is a little bit sticky and sweet.


Pours lightly cloudy with a couple of inches of white, frothy foam.  Retention is nice with lacing beginning immediately, lasing throughout the entire drink.

Aroma if citrus hop forward.  Light, clean sweetness from the malt to balance.

Taste is more of the same from the aroma.  Finishes dry to accent the hops, leaving a bitterness that helps balance while not crushing the palate.  Does build a bit by the end.

Medium body helped by a big carbonation.

A well rounded beer.  The aroma was solid but not big enough for me, still better than most.  The taste and drinkability are helped by a low amount of lingering bitterness.  Enjoy!

Pours slightly hazy with an inch of frothy, off-white foam.  Retention is average.  Lacing is solid throughout.

Aroma is hop forward.  Floral and citrus are not over abundant but they are at the front.  Touch of grain and hints of clean sweetness round out late.

Taste has a sweet malt element throughout.  The middle has grain, suggesting bread notes.  The finish carries the sweetness as well as citrus and floral hops.  Bitterness is minimal.

Medium body.  Mild carbonation.

More malt forward than expected.  A DIPA should have more hops than this one.  That said not a bad beer just not a great beer.  Too many other DIPAs out there to have this one again.

 Deep brown, seems clear and maybe a tint of red. Soft dark tan decent head,

 Nutty and sweet. At one point I think sour, tart cherries, and buscuit maltiness.

 Sweet molasses, and  thick malt nut favor. Alcohol bite toned way down as brew warmed. Pretty full mouthfeel, and OK carbonation.

 If I had a knock, or I do have a knock it's too sweet. Love the color aroma, but not completely in balance. Would be great in a beer/food pairing course. Reminds me of New Holland's Cabin Fever. At the right time of year it'd be great. Thinks the sweetness just needs to be reined in a bit.

Pours slightly cloudy on an otherwise clear and light looking beer.  Almost saison looking.  Heaps of rocky, white foam top.  A bit of staying power, leaving wispy lacing, and a light overall cover to the remaining beer.

Aroma is a peppery and fruity.  Not much, if any mal light grain.  Blackberry is most distinct.

Taste is rather simple.  A touch of grain up front, carrying to the middle.  Blackberry, fruity and a finish of solid pepper.  Lingers.

Light body with minimal to no carbonation.  Expected the body but wanted more  carbonation to hold it up - fizzy up front.  Dry.

A nice Brett IPA but by no means great.  If you find this rated high, it is because of the perception that it is a Brett IPA, therefore it must be ridiculously good.  Rate what your senses sense.  Rant done.  I would have it again but different strain of Brett to add a better yeast profile.

Short Rating
Arom 8 (22%)
Taste: 7 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 7 (28%)
Overall: 7.4

Pours clear with an inch of white head into a pint glass.  Retention is nice for such a small amount of foam.  Wispy lacing at times, created by the tip of the glass.

Aroma is cereal grains up front, giving off sweetness late.  Light citrusy hops are backing but definitely not the leader.   As it warms pine becomes more prevalent but still a backseat to the malt.

Taste is grain and cereal.  There is a sweetness in the middle that really builds quickly and dissipates as well.  Bitterness is late and mild.  Finishes cleanly, no lingering.  I like that.

High end of light body, maybe sneaks in on the lower end of medium.  Heaps of spritzy carbonation yield that sense of body.

This beer might have been past prime.  There was a date on the bottle but it was smudged, making it unreadable.  Rating for the beer I had today.  Based on that I would have another to compare it to what I had.  My wife purchased this beer with a couple of others, supposedly the IPAs were fresh, finding out otherwise.  The sweetness keeps this beer from being easier to appreciate.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 6 (22%)
Taste: 6 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 5 (28%)
Overall: 6.0



 Slightly funky is initial thought, but more likely milk sugar, and faint strawberry notes in the background. Not sure I am a fan of the aroma.

 Holy shit, it totally tastes like strawberry shortcake, or at least strawberry and cream. But, all is held in check so it's not over the top.  It's creamy but not sweet and rather dry. The strawberries are there, but more as a esscence than some large fruit flavor. Kind of a little thin after you get past the milk sugar.

 Very interesting and I would think it shows a very skilled brewer. You must admire how the elements of cream, sugar, and strawberry come together, but not overwrought. Now it's not something you'd drink over an extended session, but it's a real novelty to add to a multi brew tasting. You've got to try this.

 Clear Amber gold with orange hues, I've always liked this type of color scheme. Foam was more than expected for a Barleywine.

Signature 3Fs full tropical fruit notes. First and dominate is tangerine, some piney faint notes, and danky.

 Tropical fruit and sweet, which quickly turn dry from big hops.

 Classic 3Fs, huge hops but in a awesome way. Barleywine is a style that can skew too boozy and overly sweet. That's not this brew. I am a big fan of this beer.

 Attractive slick blackness, with a small and soft light brown foam head.

 Seductive, first notes are chocolate and cherries. Then either really good expresso or soft anise. For such a dark beer, no smokey nor charred flavors. To sum up in one word, desserty.

 Starts as though it's going to be really sweet, primary initial taste is licorice and some burnt toast. Ends up that the sweetness drys  out quickly.

 Special release from Feb 2009, this was bottle # 62 out of 600. Still was carbonated and aroma was awesome. But, taste was less than legendary, finish taste was papery....a sign of oxidation. This beer is a couple months from being 6-years old, which I've come to believe is the outer boundary of aging beers. Fresh, I bet it was awesome.

First review of newer Chicagoland brewery.

Pours clear but somewhat opaque from the deep ruby color highlighting the brown.  Foam is half a finger of tan and loosely packed.    Retention and lacing are no shows.

Aroma is strong oats and "typical" malt scent that you get from German malt beers.  Honey more than molasses is there as well.

Taste is similar: malt forward.  Caramel, maybe toffee hints give the sense of sweet; subtle.  Honey lends attitude.

Medium body.  Carbonation is medium as well, touch of spritz from the large bubbles.  Finishes dry, seemingly balancing a touch of sweet that is on the front of the tongue.

Not a style I am overly familiar with but the beer is nice; kindly different.  I wouldn't grab one all the time but I definitely the occasional beer, great for cooler months.  These guys aren't going to brew up typical beers.  Should be an interesting ride.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with a inch or more of tightly packed white foam.  Retention is about average with the foam thickening and coating the sides with a sticky lace.

Aroma is on the light side.  Grass with a touch of citrus on top of a pale malt sweetness.

Taste is very pilsner like.  More to this beer but think big pilsner.  Grass and citrus hops with pale sweetness including and even grain/bread malt.

Light body with light carbonation.  Palate dries.

Refreshing.  Don't know if this is typical of the style as I don't have much to go on.  Easy to drink with malt finish bringing me back for more.  Enjoy!

 Bright yellow with a little yeasty haze. Soft, pure white big foam head.

 Lemon grass first impression. Deeper inhales shows show grapefruit and a little pine.

 Appealing citrus blend, with malt definitely held in check. Comes across as crisp and fresh, but not too low in flavors. Malt sweetness very clean. Medium mouth-feel but far from thick. Can't tell this is a 7.0% abv.

 Probably one of the top American IPAs. Perfect balance, malt is in a supporting role to the sophisticated hop presence. Real pleasure to drink in the flavors, yet really crisp. Solid brew from a crazy solid brewery.

Short Rating
Arom 7 (22%)
Taste: 8 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 8 (28%)
Overall: 7.9

Poured from a bottled dated 2014-06-02.

Pours with the slightest bit of cloudiness.  Small pure white foam dissipates rather quickly, leaving light traces of its presence.

Aroma is the star.  The use of new German hops lend a pleasant fresh citrus and tropical.  Light caramel, mainly just pure sweetness, and a touch of grain add trivial balance and complexity.  The hops are the star.

Taste is more subdued than the aroma.  The hops aren't as prevalent, allowing more malt to shine.  Delicate for an IPA.  Passion fruit and melon stick with you.

Light body with medium carbonation that adds to the overall mouth feel.  Bitterness is minimal and clean.

Big aroma for such a light beer.  Definitely the star of another fine offering from Firestone.  The taste is more tame, well balanced.  Definitely a nice drinking beer that I would recommend to anyone.  Gone before you know it.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 7 (22%)
Taste: 7 (40%)
Look: 8 (10%)
Drinkability: 8 (28%)
Overall: 7.4

From a 2010 bottle (or earlier).

Pours opaque with an inch of tan foam.  Retention runs away, hiding quickly.    Lacing is sporadic, thick, but 90% or more seeps back to level.

Aroma is on the rather lighter side.  I have a hard time describing i sweet, peat, and that's about it.

Taste made me say wow after the aroma.  Molasses, vanilla, and bourbon begin in the middle and last through the end.  A nice medley.  Chocolate is at the beginning but subtle.

Big body with medium carbonation, drying out towards the end.  Boozy.

One glass is enough as there is a sweetness and alcohol mix that is tough to cut through.  Overall a solid brew that I think needs some time to age.  Glad this bottle was a year old.  Enjoy!

Pours a dark amber brown color with a off white half inch head.  Head has low retention as it dissipates quickly leaving a thin layer of foam on top clinging to the sides of the glass.

Aroma is mild.  A bit of sweet malts and caramel with a slight hint of dark fruit, maybe raisin.

Taste is generally mild as well.  I am getting a sweet malt with a bit of roasted nut. Has a slight bitterness with a sweet sticky mouth feel.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Has a coarse texture.

I am not overly impressed with the beer.  Not enough complexity to hold my interest.  It tastes fine, but I am getting bored with it.  I am wondering if I am drinking an old beer.  I might try this one again some time to see if I have the same experience.

Poured opaque from a sixteen or more month old bottle.  Foam is thick, deep tan, and two inches tall.  Retention is quite good and frothy.  Lacing is thick but slowly slide back to level, leaving a few trailers.

Aroma is all stout with a slight side of bourbon.  Roasted malt, chocolate, and coffee are the capturing the spotlight.

Taste follows the aroma but without much from the bourbon at all.  Roasted malt, chocolate, and coffee take their parts at different times.  Chocolate and bitter coffee linger.  Bourbon sneaks up here in there in the middle.  Molasses, vanilla, and even oak are there too.

Big body with mild carbonation.  Dries the palate completely, possibly from the oak.

Lots of flavors in a big but not imperial stout.  Makes me wonder how the normal stout tastes.  I would have liked a bit more of the barrel and bourbon to come out but they have probably mellowed because of the age.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 9 (22%)
Taste: 8 (40%)
Look: 8 (10%)
Drinkability: 8 (28%)
Overall: 8.2

Pours cloudy with three quarter a glass of white, frothy, thick foam. Retention is great, with the thickening and making one believe it would hold up a coin. Lacing is thick, sticky, and every where.

Aroma has the hops. Pine is predominant with citrus riding shotgun. Sweet malts add some balance to this hop forward beer.  Goodly.

Taste follows as there is caramel and maybe toasted flavors from the malt to begin. Hops start in the middle, lasting all the way through to the finish, leaving a pleasant, not harsh, bitterness that stays.

Medium body might be a stretch while the carbonation lessens after initially being high.

A crisp and refreshing ipa that I have a hard time believing came out of Alabama. The hops and malts are balanced well making for a good drinking beer. Nicely done. Enjoy!

Pours clear with half glass of pristine white foam.  Retention is fantastic becoming meringue as it recedes.  Lacing is spotty and sticky.

Aroma has a lot of bread malt.

Taste has a lot of similar malty bits.  While there is a ridiculously unbalanced hop bitterness in the finish and lingers to boot.  Spice.

Light body with medium carbonation that hits the back of mouth.

Nothing really exciting here.  Very unbalanced and not much of a enjoyable experience.  The date on the bottle, which I liked, seemed to be 2011-02-11 but the month was a bit smudged so it was a guess.   Enjoy!

Pours clear with a half glass of thick, white foam.  Retention is quite good with lacing that is thick and sticky.

Aroma is grass and wood from the hops.  There is a sweet caramel/toffee backbone.

Taste follows with a huge amount of grass and wood coming on strong.  A woody, grassy element comes on the in the finish, strong and strange.

Light body with a light carbonation.

This combination of hops isn't something that appeases me.  There isn't much else to say.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with enormous amounts of thick, tan foam on top.   Effervescent might be an under statement.  Retention is above average with the foam thickening even more.  No real lacing in spite of the thickness of the foam.

Aroma is malt forward.  Toffee, toasted, and caramel all have their place.  Sweet.  Hops seems to be a bit of thing citrus, floral, and slight spice(?).  Cherries strangely find the nose.

Taste comes across sweet as could be expected from the nose.  Too sweet but the a hint of sour comes across along with some citrus hops for a touch of balance.  The sour carries the cherries mentioned in the aroma.

A thick beer for an amber, towards the creamy side.  Carbonation is mild to medium, depends on the sip.  Sugars coat some.

There are some aspects to this beer that are really nice and then there are some on the opposite side of the spectrum.  The sweetness and sour are both something that I can't remember in an amber or at least to the degree they are here.  The aroma is nice and complex.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with an inch of solid, tan foam.  Froth forms as it holds it head better than average.

Aroma makes me think that it might be a touch old.  Resinous hops give thoughts of citrus and pine that used to be.  Lots of caramel, sweet malt with a hint of toffee.

Taste follows the nose.  Resinous hops leave a grapefruit bitterness in the finish along with some pine.  Lots of caramel sweet balances the big hops.  Grapefruit bitterness lingers a bit, softly.

Medium body with medium or better carbonation while dries the palate.

As I mentioned might be old and the only way to know what the age has taken out of it is to have it fresh.  But, the beer is still damn tasty.  Sign me up again.  Enjoy!

 Almost orange with haze. Super quick disapating soft white bubbles.

 Most barnyardy barn yard smell ever. Then overtaken by deeper lemony sour. I know that sounds contridictory, but it works.

 Citrusy sour blast. An aggresive mouthfeel, not sure from what. Very low carbonation hurts it. Oak barrel aged is hard for me to find at times, but here the woodiness is a subtle explanation point.

 I like the taste. And there's really wrong with this beer. But it's not a great beer. Missed carbonation. A flavor or two slightly out of synch. I am probably harder on it than I should be. Try it for yourself.

Pours clear with ample amounts of off-white, thick foam.  Retention is what you would expect on an ipa with the usual frothing of the foam.  Retention is spotty and sticky.

Aroma is hop forwar citrus and earth, maybe herbal combine to make an unique yet pleasing combination.  Some sweetness hides underneath.

Taste follows very closely.  Sweet at first that gives way to hops.  Citrus, earth, and herbal all cooperate to give the sense of ice tea and, at times, a medicinal quality (not fond of that flavor though but it wasn't harsh).  Minimal bitterness in that lingers a bit giving off the iced tea.

Medium body might be an over statement with the carbonation in the same category.  Not trying to kill you with beer but refresh.

A very interesting combination of hops that give an unique experience to me to this point.  Refreshing for an IPA as the hop bitterness is mild.  Enjoy!

Update 2013-03-18

Pours a dark golden color with a tint of orange.  Head is short lived and is a creamy slightly orange colored.  No lacing.

Aroma is sweet and sour with a grain type aroma.

Taste is simple and straight forward.  Malty sweetness that does not change much.

Light body with a light carbonation.  Slightly dry on the finish.  Watery mouth feel.

Overall a better beer than most macros, but pretty simple and straight forward.  An easy drinker and would be tasty on a hot day after mowing the lawn.

Pours cloudy with a half inch, white, wispy foam.  Retention is average at best.  Lacing is spotty but sticky.

Aroma is sweet, orange, lemon, coriander, pepper, other light spices add to a subtle complexity that is really nice.

Taste is sweet with Belgian yeast, pepper, clove, and some juicy fruit orange and lemon.  Once again lightly complex.

Medium body with what seems to be about the perfect amount of carbonation.

Each sip of the beer leaves me wanting more.  The well rounded aroma and taste create a well balanced, almost an uncanny beer.  Glad I can get this all the time.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with light, yet thick to a point foam.  Retention is above average with sticky, sporadic, and thin lacing.

Aroma is a mix of citrus and pine hops on caramel malt.  The overall impression is a nice balance here.

Taste is hops up fron pine.  The middle brings a transition from pine to grapefruit with a bit of caramel for good measure.  The finish carries the grapefruit hops with a touch of resin.

Medium body with about the same carbonation.  Dries the mouth while coating a bit with hop oils.

A nice beer that carries the hops and malts well.  Bitterness hight lights the finish but it doesn't over power, lingers slightly.  Solid and worth an occasional visit.  Enjoy!

Pours a clear deep brown color with an off white one finger head. Good retention on the head.  Lacing sheets down the sides of the glass.

The aroma is fresh with spicy pine hops and sweet malt.  This beer has a very pleasant aroma with a nice bold hop profile.

The taste is similar to the aroma, with sweet caramel malt that works into a fresh pine hop flavor with some citrus hop present as well. A zesty spicy note is noticeable on the finish. The hops are fresh and clean and have a lasting effect on the after taste. The label on this beer says that they used Centennial and Cascade hops.

Light to medium body with an above average amount of carbonation.  The mouth feel is on the watery side.


 Deep and clear mahagony brown. Average thickiness foam in dark tan color.

 Sour and barnyard musk, with faint sour cherries in the background.  Really unique mix that's an invitation to taste.

 Refreshingly tart, really dry with no sweetness. Then oak woodiness with a light vanilla touch, finishes with sour cherry.

 Sophisticated and completely balanced. Almost wine like, and deep in the complexity. If you like tart, this is it. A tad expensive, but worth special occasions.

2010 bottle poured into my snifter.

Pours opaque like old motor oil.  Foam is about a quarter inch and mocha in color.  Retention isn't all that great.  Lacing is ring like at the liquid level.

Aroma is chocolate up front but strangely it is light.  Somber roasted notes hide behind.  Surprisingly light with no apparent bitterness or coffee like scents.

Taste is a bit of surprise after the sweet, molasses almost cloying beginning.  Roasted and smoke rush in (not peat) which slightly lingers with a bit of ash in the deep finish.

A huge beer in the mouth with a bit more carbonation than expected, especially on a one year old RIS.

A really interesting take on a RIS as this is the first that any amount of smoke, which I liked when I normally don't.  It also was a surprise as I couldn't find it in the aroma.  Quite a solid beer.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with about two inches of pristine white foam.  Meringue forms as it slowly recedes.  Lacing is thick, sporadic, and slides back.

Aroma is Belgian yeast with some spice, yeast, and a bit of apple.

Taste is yeast and some more yeast.  Citrus is light but pleasant.

Really light and refreshing with a crisp carbonation.

This is a really refreshing beer that seems better placed on a warm day at a fair.  Nonetheless, it fits the style well with all the subtleties adding nicely to a well rounded beer.  Enjoy!

Pours a hazy copper amber color with a pure white two finger head.  Good retention on the head. Very little lacing.

Aroma is inviting.  Cinnamon, nutmeg and clove with a touch of pumpkin.

Taste is big in the spice department.  Lots of cinnamon, nutmeg and clove up front that works its way into a very bland pumpkin flavor in the finish.  A slight bitterness in the after taste.

Lighter body with medium carbonation.  Watery mouth feel.

Overall I am a bit disappointed.  I have had a few pumpkin beers with fall and this is easily my least favorite.  The spice is big and the pumpkin is bland and boring.  Off  balance and has an odd after taste.  Keep looking, lots of great pumpkin beers out there, you can skip this one.

Pours clear with a huge, tan, frothy head.  The foam become frothier as it evanesce - quit the crazy level of retention.

Aroma is malty but subtle.  Toasted, sweet, and slightly roasted.  Do a sense a bit of tartness in the finish too?

Taste again is subdued with roasted and chocolate malts taking over.  Toasted flavors are there too.  A touch of chocolate bitterness in the finish.

Medium body with a moderate amount of carbonation.  Dries a bit.

The beer was really light on aroma and taste, which is the building blocks for a beer.  The tartness to the finish of the beer was interesting but I don't believe intentional.  I would have it again, once in a great while.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque with a luscious half glass of brown, big bubbled foam.  Retention is average at best with a froth building on top.  No lacing to speak of.

Aroma of chocolate and roasted malts greet the nose first and foremost.  Faint molasses, dark fruits, and vanilla are hidden treasures, adding to the complexity.

Taste is really scant.  Roasted malt and molasses are there up front and in the middle but there is an absence of dark fruits, vanilla and/or oak.  The finish is bitter chocolate and maybe some coffee.  The bitterness stays for a bit.

Medium body with a crazy amount of fizzy foam.  Dries the palate quite quickly and thoroughly.

For a beer that talks up bringing stouts to another level with vanilla and oak chips, I think this one falls short on its promise.  Outside of a dry finish, oak isn't evident and that is only indirectly.  The aroma is the highlight and this is the makings of a solid stout, just make it go to 11.  Enjoy!

 As close to black, as a deep brown can be. Even the fizzy, quick to dissipate foam was dark brown.

 Chocolate sweetness is upfront. Then a good whiff of vanilla, brown sugar, and very faint smoke in the background.

 A Milk Chocolate taste hit, but the surprise is the lack of any of the anticipated sweetness. I'm surprised at the balance, almost comes off as dry. It has some viscosity but not at all cloying, probably due to the dryness. It's carbonated, and I like it, you'll have not figure out your own bubble ratio. I really like the after taste, no over done sweetness, it would be interest to see the malt bill.

 I am trying to figure out if I just suckered into the concept of the milk chocolate stout, is it the lactose sugars, or is it possible this brew is not a gimick. This beer has the superb flavor profile of dark bakers chocolate and a smoky, low alcohol whiskey. Then throw in a smooth dryness and muted sweet, and you've got a complex surprise. It competes with the best of american dark beers. I don't get many Terrapin, but I guess I need to work on that. This would be an insane beer if aged for some time in a bourbon barrel. I very much liked this stout.

Pours clear with ample, deep tan foam that is tightly packed.  Retention is about average or so, with foam frothing up as it dissipates.

Aroma is faint.  Chocolate, dark fruits, and some burnt malts shown through.

Taste is sweet up front and in the end.  The middle brings some burnt and roasted malt flavors that hang around into the finish.  Chocolate bitterness is also in the finish, and although light, lasts a bit.

Full body with moderate carbonation yet a nice creamy mouth feel.

Crank up the nose a notch and this would be an outstanding brew.  There are some other flaws but a really nice beer in the mouth.  Gives me a touch of faith.  Enjoy!

 Deep gold and medium thick, normal hops.

 Butterscotch sweet malt. Possibly a little pine and citrus in the background.

 Toffee, only slightly sweet, and quickly dry. A little grapefruit starts to peek through in subseqant tastings. And I guess the primary fruit flavors as apricot The hops bite is well balanced out by the malt. OK carbonation and acceptable mouthfeel.

 Not a West Coast IPA but diversity is what makes this country fun. This bottle was obtained on trade so the age might be a factor. But it was solid, although a tad skewed to the butterscotchy malty side. Your basic American IPA, with honest ingredients, from a mid-level brewery. I'd have another.

Pours a nice deep copper color with an off white one finger head.  Pours clear with lots of yeast sediment. Great retention on the head.  Lots of thick heavy lacing.

Aroma is mellow but nice.  Lots of malt with a caramel sweetness.  Some yeast coming out as well.

First sip is bitter.  I am getting an earthy hop taste that is well balanced with the caramel malt.  Some nice bready malts as well.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Smooth creamy mouth feel with a dryness on the finish.

Overall a good solid beer.  Nothing over the top happening here, except for the fact that it is a tasty beer that is an easy drinker with nice well balanced flavor.  Have one....or two!

Good looking, deep amber thats half'n'half clear/cloudy. Solid bodied, above normal foamy head, in a tan color.

 Big and bold, but in a dark fruit with spice flavor notes. Then I get caramelized pink grapefruit.

 Full mouth, then quickly crisp and dry. Dark malt, a touch of brown sugar, soft coffee, very nice grapefruit bitterness on the back of the tongue at the finish.

 Loved this beer. Screw the name this a great beer anytime of year. It's a complex and perfectly balanced brew. Top notch brewery. Seek it out.

Pours a cloudy deep golden color with a huge fluffy head.  The head on this beer is almost annoying it is so big.  I have too keep pouring a little bit more beer in and waiting for it to settle so I can get it all in the glass. Lots of fluffy lacing.

Aroma is sweet and fruity, not sure maybe white grapes? Has a very appealing aroma.

Taste is not as impressive as the aroma, but is still very pleasant.   I get kind of a sweetness on my lips and a musky dry wheat flavor that ends dry. I am getting a slight lemon citrus and finishes with a bit of a spice. A fairly simple beer but good.

Light body with light carbonation. Creamy mouthfeel.

Overall it is an easy drinking beer with enough character to make it enjoyable. This beers name is very fitting, I can totally see enjoying this beer at a backyard BBQ on a hot day.

Pours clear with a half glass of white, large bubbled foam via a vigorous pour.  Retention is well above average with lacing that is sticky beginning immediately.

Aroma is fruit and grassy hops along with a large dose of sweet, caramel malts.

Taste is really sweet throughout.  There are attempts to balance with citrus and grassy hops that linger with some light bitterness in the finish but sweet.  Towards the end of touch of bread malt slightly tantalizes the sense.

Light in the mouth, almost thin.  Carbonation is high, possibly trying to make it seem bigger.  Dries a bit in spite of being juicy up front.

Very drinkable, clean beer.  The sweetness is a little left out there.  Could have a few of these without problem but I don't know if the caramel sweetness would prohibit.  Enjoy!

Pours a nice deep amber color with a one inch foamy head.  Nice thick heavy lacing that clings to the side of the glass.

Aroma is a nice balance between a pine hop and caramel malts.

Taste is nice. I am getting a bitter citrus and pine hop flavor with a bit of caramel malt and maybe a spiced hop as well.  Dry finish.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Has a slight syrup feel on the palate.  Dry on the finish.

Overall an enjoyable beer. It is not as crisp and clean as some IPA's that I have had, but it is still tasty and enjoyable.  Try one!

Pours clear with a huge amount of off-white, frothy foam.  Retention is quite good as is the lacing: wispy and sticky.

Aroma doesn't hide that fact that it is full of hops.  Grapefruit, citrus, pine, and even spice come through.  There is a definite caramel malt back bone behind the hops.

Taste has malt up front that begins to fade into the middle as burst after burst of hop begins to take over.  Grapefruit citrus, floral are the strongest with some spice hops lingering along with the grapefruit.  Not an over powering bitterness but it lasts.

Medium body with a crisp, clean, refreshing amount of carbonation, helping the body.  Dries the palate some.

This is one of those beers I would like to taste on tap.  Really good combination of hops that give it a pleasant complexity that keeps one interested throughout.  Nicely done.  Enjoy!

Pours a deep golden color with a half inch white head. Good retention on the head of this beer.  Head lasts the entire session with a decent amount of lacing.

Aroma is malts and earthy hops with a nice banana type scent and a bit of spice.

Taste is big on yeast, banana, pine hops and spice.  This beer is fairly bitter with a good amount of malt to balance out the big hop flavor.  Some warmth coming out in the finish from the higher abv.

Medium body with light to medium carbonation.  A slightly grainy mouthfeel.

Overall another solid beer from Lagunitas.  Fairly complex with some nice well balanced flavors that make this beer different, but not weird.....just kind of "wild".  Goes down easy and is definitely worth a try!

 Black on black color. Brown, medium thick foam of average retention.

 Complex. Chocolate, toasted malt, soft grapefruit all mixed together in an inviting mix.

 Feels to get super thick and then quickly drys out, and left with a dark toast on the tongue. Seems as though there's a bit of alcohol harshness.

 Much dry and crisp version of Imperial Stout. Some interesting flavors emerge as it warms. Though I miss some of the complexity of flavors (fruits, sugars, coffees, and chocolates) found in other brewers versions of this style. On the other hand it's very drinkable for a big beer. I would have this again.

Pours clear with four inches of light tan foam.  Retention is well above average leaving sticky, thick, ringed lacing.

Aroma is dark fruits and toffee malt.  Some resinous hops that leaves thoughts of possible citrus and/or pine hops past prime.

Taste is lots of mal toffee and butterscotch.  Syrupy sweet with heat on the lips with a bit of bitterness in the finish  but it is definitely over balanced by all the malts.

Big, huge, chewy, thick body with low carbonation.  Cloying, maybe, it is close as this beer fills the mouth and stays with you.

A big beer that has all the right stuff but the ability to drink a bunch of this is limited by the huge amount of thick, chewy sweetness.  I will have another, just not now.  Enjoy!

Pours a clear amber color with quarter inch thick white head.  The head settles out leaving a thin ring of foam wrapped around the edges of the glass.

The aroma is sour cherries with a hint of sweetness.  A blend of spices are noticeable but hidden under the bold cherry aromas.

The taste is a fresh sour cherry flavor.  Like the aroma a mix of spices appear on the finish.  Hints of vanilla and oak (Thanks Scot) show up on the finish as well.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Dry on the palate with a lingering sour cherry aftertaste.

Overall, an excellent beer.  New Glarus has another winner with this beer.  Great fresh fruit flavors with a satisfying balance on the sour and spices without over doing the spices and making it gimmicky. Goes down easy but I don't see myself having more than one of these in an evening.  Add this one to your list!

I have had this one cellared for about nine months and was not sure how strong the hop profile would be.  As soon as I opened the bottle a nice strong hop aroma hit me, making me feel a bit more confident in this one!

Pours a jet black color with a fluffy two inch tan head.  Good retention.  Good lacing that clings to the glass.

Aroma is surprisingly different than most Sprecher beers and I am impressed so far.  Nice strong pine hops with a bit of floral, sweet malts and dark roasted chocolate.

On the first sip I am getting bitter dark chocolate and roasted malts which work into a smooth spicy pine hop finish.  Very nice balance between the malts and hops.  This beer has both a sweetness and a dry bitterness all at the same time.

Medium body with lighter carbonation.  Some dryness in the finish.

Overall this is one of the best Sprecher beers that I have had.  A nice refreshing beer that is easy to drink.  Nice robust hop flavors that are nicely balanced with the dark rich malts.  Keep brewing more beer like this Sprecher!

 Medium amber, slight orange tint and some haze. Thick merange like, tan color head.

 Unique aroma, though at first it was a sour (didn't make sense as an IPA), then realized it might be the cedar. Other scents are light citrus, floral, and bready.

 Taste is kind of all over the place. A tad thin, then some medium bitterness, and the cedar overlays it all. Ok in the carbonation and mouthfeel department. There is the approriate hop fruitness and malt sweetness.

 Not horrible, but I couldn't get past the cedar taste. It seem almost perfumey every so often. I drank my entire pint but think it just strayed too far from an APA.

 Deep Gold but with a tint of orange. Nice full, but soft foam head of smallish bubbles.

 Citrus skews orange, and some floral-fruit. Also, more spice than pine. Really nice overall.

 Fresh and clear, almost semi-sweet. Nice citrus taste, now more of a subtle grapefruit. Low medium mouthfeel, good carbonation. Middle ground abv, so its is well in check. The hop dryness really hides the malt backbone.

 Not bold or overly sophisticated, but no less a well made beer. It's both simple and complex. The hallmark's of this brew of it's fresh bold flavors and it's drinkability.

Drank from a bottle with date of 2011-03-25 numbered 2005.

Poured opaque with an inch of deep tan foam.  Frothier as it recedes, which is average, while leaving almost no lacing.

Aroma is big on the licorice.  Heaping helping of roasted malt is there and some mild chocolate.  Smoke and molasses come in there too.  Each quaff brings something new and interesting.

Taste is a sweet throughout, something that could get better with age.  Licorice, molasses, chocolate, and more each excite the palate in varying degrees and times.

Thick and heavy with light carbonation.  A bit sticky on the lips.  A bit of heat but not as hot as I expected.

This is fairly fresh and drinking nice, a year or more of age could easy make this beer fantastic.  If you aren't a fan of sweet beers, stay away and/or wait.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with a half glass of billowing, off-white foam.  Retention is good with the top drying and thickening as it recedes.  Lacing begins from the get g dry and sticky.

Aroma is hop forward as can be expected from the name.  Spice, earth, and that pungent hop aroma that is distinctly Crystal send out the beacon for the olfactory.  Citra hops lends a citrus profile that compliments.

Taste is a bit sweet up front but that is the extent of the malt presence.  Hops once again are the star: spice and grassy flavors abound while there is a citrus background that might even bring ever slow light pine.  Light bitterness that slowly builds throughout.

Mouth feel is almost non-existent if it wasn't for a zesty, full carbonation that carries the beer.

This is a nice IPA and what you come to expect from Sierra Nevada.  It doesn't break any barriers but it has a nice mix of hops, is crisp, and definitely refreshing.  The ultra light body makes it a great summer beer.  Enjoy!

 Slightly deeper than pale gold, with a delicate off-white foam head.

 Sharp citrus then followed by hop resin, then maybe a touch of pine. I am guessing Citra is one of the hops and makes it interesting.

 Definately one of the best and big Double IPAs in the Midwest. Citrus blast and starts to build a big malt background but then quickly disappears. Leaves a touch of bitterness, but it's grape fruity profile...that I personally like. Full mouthfeel, but not cloying. Not too sweet, just right amount.

 I am a big fan of this brew. Big Scot is bugged a tad by the bitterness, but I like the overall blend of this brew.

Pours a clear black color with a hint of ruby red around the edges of the glass. The pour reveals a huge dark brown colored frothy head that required more than a few minutes to complete the pour as the head wanted to continually overflow the edges of the glass. No lacing.

The aroma is dark roasted malts, chocolate, and coffee.

The taste is bitter dark roasted malts with a dark chocolate and molasses finish. A strange metallic flavor is noticeable in the taste and is a little out of place. The aftertaste is mostly coffee and chocolate with a fairly strong bitterness.

Light body with medium carbonation. A smooth creamy mouthfeel.

Overall, not the best representative of a oatmeal stout. The body is too light and the flavors are not bad, but the metallic flavor that I was getting tends to last on the palate.  A disappointing beer as I usually always enjoy this style beer.  Give one a try....maybe you will like it.

Infected.  Could not review the beer.  Not too happy here.

2012-05-02
I have been contacted by Jester King that they had some issues with this beer that they did try to correct.  I am working with them to try and get another chance to review.

2012

Pours a clear copper like amber color with a quarter inch creamy white head.  The head settles out leaving a thin layer of creamy foam resting on top. Lots of thick lacing sheets the sides of the glass.

The aroma is very pleasant with pine hops and citrus with a bit of grapefruit and a caramel sweet malt.

The taste is pretty similar to the aroma. It starts off with a BIG punch of hops, I get some pine and grassy flavors and some citrus grapefruit flavors.  The sweet caramel malts show up near the finish, but are very subdued in comparison to the massive hop profiles.  The finish is insanely bitter with some floral flavors lingering in the aftertaste along side the huge bitterness.

Medium body with medium carbonation with an oily mouthfeel that coats the palate.

Overall, an impressive DIPA.  Put on your big boy pants before having this beer!  This one has some seriously dangerous amounts of hops and a bitterness that will knock your socks off!  A damn good beer, but your taste buds are going to be trashed for a week! Everything you eat will taste like hops! It's awesome!  Try one!

Batch: 7/11, Bottle Number: 676/1599

Pours clear with a 3/4 glass of white  foam, typical of the style.  Retention is above average with the top of the foam frothing as it recedes.  Lacing exists, but most fall back to level.

Aroma is nicely layered.  Light grain, wheat, touch of white pepper, orange, hay, and a slight touch of oak.

Taste is delicate.  Fruity, really citrus greets the tongue, later wheat, and hay.  Oak rounds out the end with light spice lingering in the finish.

Light body with medium carbonation whose tiny bubbles pop on the lips.

A refreshing beer that surprisingly had minimal to no funky nature.  It dries in the finish while seemingly fighting a juicy feel, continually bringing me back for more.  Enjoy!

From a bottle received in February of 2010.  Possibly a 2009 bottle?

Pours clear with a couple or more inches of tan, tightly packed, small bubbled foam.  Retention is quite nice, frothing the top as it recedes.  Thin foam leaves a mark in spite of a sticky look.

Aroma is dark fruit forward upon first pour.  Fig, raisin, and plum are coated gently by deeper caramel malt.  Bread, toffee, and subdued chocolate notes add to the complexity.  Soft hints of booziness but that could be the nose wanting to find it rather the actual presence.

Taste isn't as brite as the aroma.  Caramel and toffee highlight the malts with dark fruits taking a roll but not as aggressively from the nose.  Very late alcohol creeps up on you but before that begins there is an earthiness to the early finish.  Bitterness is there as well but only slightly and, possibly, caused by the alcohol burn as it builds upon subsequent sips.

Big end of medium body with medium carbonation in spite of the age of the beer.  Maybe could be a bit less for me.  Dries the palate and leaves a touch of sticky residue on the lips; not enough to be cloying.

I was in the mood for a barley wine this evening.  Flying Mouflan scratched it.  The age seems to have mellowed the beer, the alcohol is still strong, creating a more elaborate rue.  I would have this again but would lean towards another aged bottle.  Enjoy!

Pours a deep mahogany brown out of  a 16oz can.  Nice head that disappears quickly.  Spotty lacing.

Aroma is a punch of nut and alcohol.  The alcohol is strong on the nose and kind of burns your nose.

Taste is lots of strong nut and a hint of hops.  Body is very light for a brown ale.  Has a booziness to it that is warming.

Overall it is not a beer I would seek out.  I drink it if that is what you put in front of me, but I wouldn't buy it.

Aroma, the label says dank. I'm wondering if this is wet hopped. There is a bit of grassiness to the hop. A slight sweetness to the grain is hinted at.
Look. Golden, translucent. Thin lace no head.
Taste. Medium body, dry, I'm wondering of its Columbus hopped?  Strong bitterness with linger. This is not a session beer- hence the bomber. One is plenty. Not friendly to the hop head that can't take the bitter after burn. Will wreck your palate if your doing a tasting. And it's just fine. So is it worth it?  I think the value of clown shoes is in the price. I'm wondering if they are the Midwest price point

Pours opaque with clear sides.  Deep tan foam about two inches thick coats the liquid beneath.  Retention is above average but leaves nary a trace of its' once lived glory.

Aroma is spice and more spice.  Cinnamon is the front runner with nutmeg and an almost potpourri scent.  Fruits lie behind as the beer breaths a touch.  Dark.  Some roasted malt begins to be attainable.

Taste is a bit spiced up fron nutmeg, all spice, cinnamon, and others but don't come across as over bearing.  Roast, dark fruits (very mild), and light caramel notes strum a tune.  The roast lingers nicely in the background, giving one thoughts of a stout.

Medium or so body with a carbonation that zings the front of the tongue and lips before fading.  There is a lingering sweetness here that coats the lips a touch.

A nice beer for the cold months in spite of me drinking it in late spring.  One of the best "winter warmers" I have had a chance to review.  Definitely on the future horizon.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with about an inch of tan foam.  Retention is quick with minimal to no lacing.

Aroma is roasted malt up front.  Next comes a big wave of bourbon, vanilla, and sultry oak.  Molasses as a main source of sweetness ebbs it way through also.

Taste is mostly oak, vanilla, bourbon, molasses, and sweetness.  A roasted value is there too.  I don't get much of a usual brown that I was expecting.

Mouth is thinner: maybe medium at best with low carbonation too.

A nice beer that has some good points, I just think it makes me think more porter than brown.  The sweetness is a bit much as it seem unbalanced.  Some age might do this good.  Definitely smooth for what is in it.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 8 (22%)
Taste: 9 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 9 (28%)
Overall: 8.8

Pours clear with a heaping helping of light tan, dense bubbled foam.  Foam thickens as it nicely and uniformly recedes.  Lacing  is wet and spotty.

Aroma is Belgian with a lot of malts and dark fruit.  Malts are on the sweet side while the dark fruits are hidden behind.  There is a sense of cinnamon.

Taste is uniquely complex.  Malts are there with sweetness and maybe a bread or similar, hard to make that out.   A really nice blend of malts.  Some spiciness comes in and lingers a bit on the sides of the tongue.  Dark fruits abound in the taste, much more than in the aroma.  A bit of nice heat comes late in the after taste, warming on the way done.  Nice.

Medium carbonation with an almost big body.  Tacky and a bit dry.

This is a bit unlike any beer I have had.  There is a ton going on and I don't believe writing about it does it justice.  Maybe a bit too sweet otherwise a really solid beer and offering.  Enjoy!

Pours a clear pale amber color with a half inch white head.  Good retention on the head.  Lots of lacing that clings to the sides of the glass.

The aroma is fresh and clean.  Citrus (maybe grapefruit), a bit of floral, some grassy notes as well a hint of pine.

The taste is similar to the aroma with a citrus hop that reminds me of grapefruit, some light grassy hops with a light malt backbone to balance the beer out.  Very drinkable and refreshing.

Light body with medium carbonation.  The beer is somewhere between watery and creamy on the mouthfeel with a zesty carbonation that tickles the tongue.

A very nice beer from Founder's! Great drink ability with a very flavorful enjoyable hop profile! With the lower ABV, I can see this beer becoming a hot summer afternoon favorite! Try one!

Poured clear as day with several inches of white,frothy foam for a hat.  Retention was above average with a spider web, sticky lacing.

Aroma is full of bread malt that is quite pleasing, almost grain at times.  Yeast and hops round out the scents.

Taste of course follows.  The bread and grain malt profile follow throughout becoming a touch sweet in the finish but lingering.  The hops are subdued but ample.

Light body on top of a light carbonation; they seem to go hand-in-hand.

Wow: crisp, clean, and refreshing in one easy to drink beer.  Sessionable beyond comparison.  It does a nice job of quenching the thirst and having enough substance to appreciate the difficult of the balance in such a "small" beer.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with two or more inches of slightly off-white, thick, frothy foam.  Retention is great along with some spider web, sticky lacing.

Aroma is wonderfully full of hops.  Pine is the biggest player while grapefruit and orange citrus dazzle the nose.  Sweet malt backbone comes through but you have to go and find it.

Taste is a hop bomb.  Sweetness up front is swallowed by the beginnings of a hop behemoth that start to develop in the middle.  Pine, orange, and other softer citrus flavors then developing into a big grapefruit backed by pine bitterness that lasts into the finish and beyond.  There is a definite spice there too that complicates nicely.

Medium body that is a little sticky and drying to the mouth and lips.  Carbonation is medium or better.  The combination is quite nice on the palate.

Well put together big hoppy American beers are beautiful when well done.  Hopocalypse is all that and more.  One of the better DIPAs I have had recently.  I have had two beers from Drake's now and been impressed by both.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with a half-glass of luscious off-white foam.  Dense and lasting, the stickiness clings to the class, creating a web of trails.

Aroma assaults with grapefruit hops lobbed from the glass.  Resin and soapy scents ebb and flow with a pine dankness.  Malt is present, it has to be for all those hop caramel and clean.

Taste is light up front with sweetness giving way to waves of hops.  Pine takes the stage and drowns out the others.  Still, grapefruit and tropical flavors find a way.  Pine lasts through to the finish, leaving behind a stiff bitterness.

Medium body, almost creamy at times from the hop oils.  Medium carbonation fits well.  Dries the palate as is expected.

The aroma of this beer is really nice, maybe a bit too resinous to be perfect for me.  That is the best part of the beer.  The taste and drinkability suffer from hop overdose as there isn't enough balance.  Enjoy!

Pours a hazy straw color with a bright white two finger soapy head. Good retention on the head. Lots of frothy lacing.

The aroma is big on fresh citrus notes with a faint earthy scent hiding underneath.

The taste starts with tropical citrus and lemon notes and works into wheat and malts with hints of earthy herbal notes.  The finish is a nice blend of wheat and citrus grapefruit and lemon.  Some what sweet, but very refreshing. Very little if any bitterness.

Light body with medium carbonation.  A smooth, but zesty mouth feel. Very drinkable.

Overall, a very nice offering from Boulevard.  Very drinkable and refreshing with well balanced flavors that keep me coming back for more.  A very nice mix between a wheat beer and an IPA.  I will buy this one again! Try one!

From a fourteen month old bottle.

Pours opaque with a half glass of brown foam.  Almost frothing as it recedes the foam stays for a while not leaving too much behind.

Aroma is faint but roasted malt and cocoa seem to set in.  Not much else.

Taste is big on the roasted malt with coffee and cocoa adding some interesting flavors to mix with.  Some sweetness that is caramel and molasses in nature.

Medium body with no carbonation.  Dries the palate quickly and thoroughly.

Is it safe to say that Old Heathen is the base beer for Heresy?  Not an off the charts based on size, which makes it refreshing by comparison.  Solid.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with a half glass of thick, tan foam.  Retention is average or a bit better.  Frothy as it recedes.  Lacing doesn't exist in my pint glass.

Aroma is really light with just a touch of peat smoke coming through.  Some citrus hops climb on board late.

Taste is sweet malt suppressed by smoke.  The finish is a combination of smoke and peat while milk chocolate layers.  The peat stays for a while but is always accompanied by a sweetness.

Medium body with a light carbonation.

Not a huge fan of smoked beers but this one isn't bad.  One of the most drinkable that I have had.  Still there isn't a ton going on with the beer but it is a good year old.  Maybe age has stifled it original robustness.  Enjoy!

Served from a 16 month old bottle.

Pours cloudy with minimal tan foam.  Staying power is actually good for the amount of foam.  Lacing is loose and juicy, quickly seeking back to level.

Aroma immediately has a bit of harsh alcohol which wears off quickly.  Surprised based on the age.  Dark fruits and sweetness are strong.  Candy sugar, almost Belgian in type, is prevalent.

Taste doesn't have the heat like the aroma.  Sweet, dark fruits, and a candy element that I can't figure out.  No bitterness but something balances the sweet.

Medium body (thought it would be bigger) with a spritzy carbonation that lingered, strange.  Late alcohol, long after the swallow but minor.

Maybe a touch too uninteresting in the taste.  Nothing really made me excited, unfortunately.  Curious as to what more aging would do here.  A good offering: I think their Insanity is much better but this is offered year round.  Enjoy!

From a sixteen month old bottle.

Pours dark as the night with vigorous pour bringing about a half glass of mocha colored, thick foam.  Retention is well above average.  The foam thickens as it recedes.  Sporadic lacing.

Aroma of bourbon and wood come through to begin.  Pleasant, not strong.  Of course vanilla is right on the heels while cocoa hints are laced throughout.  Subtlety roasted malts bubbles to the top too.

WOW!  That's how I can explain the taste in one word.  Complex and smooth.  Oak, vanilla, cocoa, bourbon, roasted malt, and a touch of coffee all titillate the taste buds.  The end culminates in a mixture of cocoa, vanilla, and bourbon that is darn tasty.  A bit of brown sugar hits late, leaving a lingering sweetness.

Big body that sits on a thin carbonation that is backed by a silky, creamy finish.

No alcohol present at all on this creamy smooth brew.  The bourbon aging adds complexity allowing enough of the base to show through.  One of the most drinkable RIS beers I have had.  I assume the year plus in the cellar did it a solid.  Enjoy!

Pours very cloudy with an inch of large bubbled, white foam.  Average retention with small, sporadic bits of juicy lacing.

Aroma is huge on the hops.  Awesome.  Citrus, grapefruit, and mango hops prance through my nostrils.  Sweet and bread malts add mellow malt notes.

Taste is another brash splash of hop grapefruit swallows the middle while mango, tropical, and citrus hit the end.  The finish brings more grapefruit bitterness.  A dab of sweetness helps to balance the hops.

Medium body with medium carbonation and a drying of the palate.

120 IBUs and it doesn't completely ruin my palate - good balance (to a point).  A real nice drinker with a great hop profile and one that is left to consume the beer.  No apology needed.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque with an inch of light brown and thick foam.  Retention is above average with thick, yet thin lacing.

Aroma carries licorice first.  Roasted malt and chocolate come through next.  Subtleties of alcohol also greet the nose.  Had to work to find what little I did (served in a snifter).

Taste is more of the same in terms of difficulty finding flavors.  The end brings an acute alcohol burn followed by late sensations of chocolate and licorice.  Warms as it goes down.

Medium body and definitely thin for what I expect. Medium carbonation while drying to palate.

Beer seems to be a bit unfinished.  It might still be a bit young at eight months or so.  I assume the sharp edged alcohol would lighten with age and hopefully the beer would build some character.  Wait a while.  Enjoy!

Arom smells hoppy on the fruity citrusy side
Look looks great.  Golden amber, thin even lace over beer, slight haze.

Taste:  Huh.  Is that Calypso, a hop I've never had?  It's weird.  It's not bad, it's interesting.  When I had Citra for the first time, it was a no brainer- that's a great hop.   This Citra, I'll keep drinking it.  To figure it out.  Do I like it and it's different?  Or is it just bad?  It's not so bad that I'd dump it.  It's just so different than normal, I can't make up my mind.

It's very flavorful, but there is this 'twang' bitterness in the end.  It makes it.... old fruit flavor.  Sort of good, but maybe I should have skipped it.

It's funky in the end.  Short big bitter.

Pours black with a hint of ruby red when I hold the glass up to the light.  A one inch khaki colored dense foam head with good retention.  Thick lacing sheets down the sides of the glass.

The aroma is full of dark roasted malts, a hint of coffee and some chocolate notes as well.

The taste is rich and full with a big roasted malt profile.  A sweet molasses blends with the dark roasted malt and creates a nice balance between bitter and sweet.  A dark fruit flavor shows itself in the middle and works into a roasted malt with bitter chocolate and a hint of coffee.  Finishes with a bitter citrus grapefruit flavor that lasts on the palate.

Full bodied with medium carbonation.  Creamy mouthfeel with a lasting bitter sweet aftertaste.  Slightly dry encouraging me to keep drinking!

This is an awesome beer! A perfectly balanced beer with great flavors and aroma.  An easy to drink stout with a well hidden higher ABV.  This is the first time that I have had this beer and it easily falls into the favorite category for me!  Try one!

Pours a cloudy deep golden color with a thick two finger white frothy head.  The head dissipates after a few minutes and leaves a thin layer of white foam resting on top.  Lacing starts even before the first sip. Lots of thick sticky lacing sheets the sides of the glass.

The aroma is very nice.  A blend of sweet caramel malts with a nice citrus and floral hop.

The taste is very similar to what you would expect after enjoying the aroma.  A sweet caramel malt character starts things off with a gentle hop presence that builds toward the middle and finishes with a nice blend of creamy sweet malt and a crisp citrus hop.

Medium body with light to medium carbonation.  Creamy and smooth mouth feel with a sweetness on the lips and a slight dryness on the palate. A very easy drinking beer.

Overall, an impressive cream ale.  This is not a style that I would normally gravitate to, but I was glad that I tried this beer.  Easily the best cream ale that I have ever had!  The hop presence in the beer really makes this beer shine! This is the first beer that I have had from Sixpoint and I am impressed.  Looking forward to trying more of what they have to offer.  Try one!

Short Rating
Arom 8 (22%)
Taste: 9 (40%)
Look: 8 (10%)
Drinkability: 9 (28%)
Overall: 8.7

From a bottle label November, 2011.

Pours slightly cloudy with a huge amount of pristine, white, tiny bubbled foam.  Retention quickly runs away.  Lacing doesn't exist much.

Aroma Is funky, almost acidic tartness that has a twist of cherry.  The funk is old, musty, almost over aged.  Gives a sense of age.

Taste is more or les simple.   Tart, really tart but not sour.  There is a touch of cherry as well.

Light body with a huge amount of tiny bubbled carbonation.

The beer is good, it just isn't as complex as I would have liked.  The layers that these styles of beer need just leaves it stumbling a bit.  Enjoy!

 Deep, bright gold with a very slight haze. Topped with a very soft white head, thick at first, but fades.

 Thick resins, grassy, and then explosion of tropical fruits (Mango, orange, grapefruit, and slight peach).

 Huge fruit burst for me. Same fruits I mentioned in the aroma, though I would say stone tree fruits seem more pronounced. Nice malt, feels like it gonna be thick , but drops off without much sweetness. There's a great lingering after taste that mostly citrus tartness. Almost no bitterness, which is amazing for a 99ibu brew. Same with the alcohol, 9%abv is hidden.

 I am a HUGE fan of Alpine, and this colob with New Belgium has their fingerprints all over it. Depth of fruit flavor, huge personality, perfect balance, and total originality. All of this for $7 a bomber. I wish I could always have a bottle of beer in my possession.

Pours bright and clear with minimal white foam that is fleeting.  Lacing is blotchy with most all falling back to level.

Aroma is a little subdued, especially based on expectations.  Light floral, spice, and citrus hops lead the way, in spite.  Light grains with almost no sweetness.

Taste has underlying malt that is clean with a touch of grain.  Once again, no sweetness which allows the hops to run free.  Floral, spice, grapefruit, and herbal, almost earthy flavors create a unique, yet complex hop profile.  Bitterness is mild, yet lingers.

Medium body with similar carbonation.  Dries the palate, especially after the first few ounce go down.

I expected more Citra and Cascade based on the profile but pleasantly surprised that each hop is given the ability to add to the overall impression with none dominating.  Definitely easy to drink and something to look for.  Enjoy!

A vigorous pour brings about a full glass of white foam that is stacked with small bubbles.  Retention is above average; better than expected even though the foam is large.  Lacing begins immediately: sticky a web-like in nature.

Aroma is sweet with a touch of bread base.  Hops are floral and light citrus.  Faint but pleasant.

Taste is caramel up front with light toast towards the end.  Floral and citrus hops play a mellow tune in the middle and end.  Light bitterness that doesn't cove some alcoholic heat.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Slightly dries the palate but still leaves some juice.

This is merely a touch above average.  There are much better IPAs out there that better command your consuming dollar.  There is a strangeness to the finish that makes me think nutty but maybe my tasters are off.  Enjoy!

Pours a nice clear deep golden color with a thin white head.  Head dissipates quickly with spotty lacing.

Aroma is a mix of citrus and floral hops and malt.

Taste is very clean and refreshing.  Starts out with a nice citrus flavor and works in to a mild grassy hop flavor.  A very easy drinker!

Light to medium body with lighter carbonation.  Mouthfeel is gentle, creamy and smooth.

Overall and very nice beer.  Nice flavors and a nice mouthfeel makes this a very enjoyable beer that goes down easy on a hot night!  Try one!!

Pours clear with about three inches of frothy, slightly off-white foam.  Retention is above average.  Lacing begins from the get go leaving sporadic sticky traces of effervescence.

Aroma is big on hop playground for the nose.  Citrus, pine, and tropical hops are there in your face at first.  As the beer airs out notes of banana, sweet malt, yeast, and wheat all come through.  The banana almost has a clove scent behind it (maybe it is the wheat and yeast) that gives me thoughts of a hefe yeast.

Taste is muted at first with some citrus.  The middle brings on a lot of sweetness transitioning with a cavalcade of flavors into the end, with most traveling to the finish too.  Everything in the nose begins to come out and fight for your palate; each winning for a while.

Medium body with about the same carbonation, maybe a touch lighter, dries the mouth immensely.

I wasn't sure about this beer up front but opening it changed my mind quickly.  Complex might be a weak word here.  Lots of aroma and lots of flavor.  Maybe a touch too sweet to really sit back and session.  Really nice twist to an IPA.  Enjoy!

Bottled 2011-03-28.

Pours clear with a half glass of white, froth foam.  It has some good staying power.  Thin but sticky lacing throughout.

Aroma is cracker that is sweet with grassy notes.  Doughy and slight mustiness.  Sort of thin.

Taste follows the nose with cracker, dough, and bread that give a very sweet taste.  Grassy hop flavors erupt giving a bit of bitterness staying on the tongue.  Late but light alcohol on the side of the tongue.

Light mouth feel but there is a stickiness from the sweetness that makes it come across bigger.  Average amount of carbonation.

I was drinking this beer outside at 9pm when it was still 90+ degrees and high humidity: went down too easy.  Everything seemed prefect outside compared to when I wrote most of the review inside.  A solid beer but needs a bit more to move up.  Enjoy!

Pours a deep brown color with a hit of ruby redness.  Head is a thin light tan color with very little retention, leaving just a thin swirl of foam on top.

Aroma is mild, but I am getting cocoa and a hint of raspberry.

Taste follows the aroma pretty much to a T.  Mostly cocoa and a hint of raspberry. The flavor seems to be a bit mild and watery, not as robust and exciting as I had hoped.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Watery mouthfeel.

Overall I am a bit disappointed.  I was hoping for a more robust flavored porter.  It's an acceptable beer, but the flavor needs to get bumped up a notch to be a really good beer.

Pours slightly cloudy with  a couple of inches of thick, partly frothy foam.  Good staying power while juicy lacing is spotty.

Aroma is a combination of tart, grape, and apple that are inviting.  Touches of sweetness are surrounded by touches of hay.

Taste starts mild with grape tartness building to the middle and trailing off in the end.  Enough sweetness as to keep the pucker at bay.

Light body with a spry carbonation, finishing dry.

Nice to see a local brewery producing a nice sour offering.  Balanced between and sour making this an easy drinker.  Enjoy!

Pours a nice straw color with a half inch white head.  Medium retention on the head. Spotty watery lacing.

Nice aroma.  Bready with a bit of citrus mild malts and a hint of spice.

Taste is very nice as well.  Starts out with a mild citrus hop, works into a gentle bready malt flavor a finishes with clean sweetness. I am getting a very faint pine hop flavor hidden in the flavor as well. Well balanced and enjoyable.  All the flavors are mild, but work well together and keeps it light and refreshing.

 Light body with medium carbonation. Watery mouthfeel. Finishes clean and dry on palate.

Overall I am really enjoying this beer.  It is not a jaw dropper of a beer, but it is well balanced and has enough flavors and complexity to make it a solid summer brew.  Goes down very easy!  Try one at your next summer BBQ!

Pours clear with a huge, frothy, large bubbled, slightly off-white foam.  Retention is outstanding with lacing beginning quickly: juicy, sticky, yet wispy.

Aroma is citrus and pine hops with Belgian yeast.  A sweet malt backbone is there but is subtle.

Taste is sweet at first, giving way to hops and some spice.  The hops are grapefruit and pine; grapefruit the prime.  Spice is peppery, staying on the palate longer than the hops.

Body is lighter than expected but the hop oils coat a touch.  Crisp and refreshing on another ridiculously hot evening.

A really nice blend of American hop and malt backbone with the Belgian yeast adding nice complexity.  Make sure to be careful how fast you drink as it goes down easy.  Enjoy!

Pours a cloudy pale golden color with a thin white head.  Head dissipates quickly leaving a thin swirl of foam on top.  Spotty lacing.

Aroma is interesting.  I am getting banana and cloves.

Taste is very nice.  Light and refreshing.  I get a mild banana flavor with some clove and a bit of spice on the backend.

Light body with light to medium carbonation.

Overall this is a pretty good beer.  Nice flavors with a nice aroma.  Very drinkable.  One of the better beers from this brewery that I have had in a while even though it does not really seem like it is true to style.

Pours clear but with an enormous, almost infected looking amount of white foam.  Retention isn't that great for the amount of foam, which leads me to believe it is not infected.

Aroma is wheat forward.  Clove is there slightly, banana even less.

Taste is very sweet, with a burst of wheat and bread like malt.

Lots of carbonation on a medium bodied beer.

I believe this place is out of business and this beer could have some serious age on, especially based on the profile I was getting.  Not that pleasant and most found it to the bottom of my sink.  Enjoy!

Batch 2010-1 best by 2013-01

Pours opaque with a massive amount of thick, tan, very tightly packed bubbled foam.  Retention is up there with the longest lasting ever.   Lacing can be very thick at times and limited at other times.

Aroma is roasted malts foremost.   Milk chocolate rides the tails of the coat.  Alcohol and dank earth come in late but eventually begin to build.

Taste doesn't bring much new.  Roasted malt, chocolate, and alcohol create the profile.  The dank earth once again comes in and, in this case, late in the taste.

Medium body, maybe a bit more, with high carbonation.  Dries the palate.

The earthiness, which might be from the hops, makes this one hard to really hit hard, no to speak of the alcohol.  A solid offering but I think there are plenty of others that I would seek out first.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque, due to the darkness of the liquid, but "seems" clear.  Head is minimal, mocha that doesn't last nor lace.

Aroma is that of beautiful oak with hints of vanilla.  Chocolate, brown sugar (maybe molasses), touch of sweet, and hints of bourbon .

Taste is a complex balance.  The bourbon, oak, and vanilla (my favorite parts) balance nicely with the malt backbone that holds up this sturdy beer.  Different sips and in different parts of each sip bring out the elaborateness of the beer.

Full body that isn't cloying.  Moderate carbonation.

As the fourth bourbon aged beer of the evening I thought this one would get lost among the clouds.  It didn't.  The aroma is fantastic with the oak intricacies entangling the sense.  These beers are expensive but each one I open doesn't make regret the purchase.  Enjoy!

Pours a clear black color with a hint of ruby red around the edges of the glass.  The pour produces a thin layer of light tan foam that quickly settles out, leaving just a swirl or foam floating on top. Very little, if any lacing.

The aroma is roasted malt with caramel, molasses, milk chocolate, a bit of dark fruit, as well as oats.  A very pleasant complex aroma.

The taste is burnt dark roasted malts with a bit of caramel that works into a dry earthy flavor with a dark chocolate bitter finish.  The aftertaste is dry with a lingering bitter chocolate, mixed with semi-sweet molasses.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Watery, but smooth mouthfeel.  Dry bitter finish with a sweetness that seems to resurface the longer you wait before the next sip.

Overall, an enjoyable easy to drink oatmeal stout.  The aroma is really nice and complex, and leaves me wanting more out of the taste.  The taste is nice, but not as complex and interesting as the aroma, but still proves to be a very tasty brew that I would have again.  Try one!

Pours a clear brown color with a one finger creamy light tan head.  Good retention on the head as it sticks around for the entire session.  Spotty watery lacing.

The aroma is fairly simple and straight forward.  Bready malts, an earthy hop, and a light winter spice.

The taste has a bit more to offer than the aroma.  Sweet bready malts, a bit of dark fruit, with a mild earth hop finish.  A very light winter spice is present as well.  A bit of heat from the higher abv is noticeable.

Medium body with a medium carbonation.  Crisp and clean on the palate with a watery mouthfeel.  Slightly sweet and sticky finish.

Overall this is an enjoyable beer, but I feel that the aroma and the flavors seem a bit muted as I have to really search to find the complexity it hides.   Nothing really bad here, but nothing that makes it really stand out for me either.   It is nice to have a "winter" beer that is mildly spiced as sometimes the winter spiced beers can get a little over the top with the spices.  It is worth at try!

Short Rating
Arom 8 (22%)
Taste: 9 (40%)
Look: 8 (10%)
Drinkability: 8 (28%)
Overall: 8.4

Pours opaque with a thin layer of deep brown foam.  No trace of the foam can be found after a few seconds.

Aroma is predominately oats, dark fruits, and alcohol that pushes back the hairs.  Sugary, sweet molasses hits the nose late.

Taste finishes sweet, brown sugar that stays, coating the mouth.  Burnt, almost ashy flavors come late, possibly that black patent.  Coffee and alcohol round it out.

Medium, possibly bigger, mouthfeel with a good amount of carbonation.  Palate is dried well in the finish.

This is a tasty brew.  It could do from a year or two of cellar time to help mellow.  A well crafted beer.  Enjoy!

Vintage 2011

Pours cloudy with a ruby red brown color with a big fluffy tan head.  Lots of yeast sediment floating around after the pour.  The head settles out leaving a quarter inch of foam resting on top. Spotty lacing.

The aroma is a blend of cherries and sweet malts. Caramel and toffee.  The cherries have a tart scent.  A very nice aroma.

The taste is very similar to the aroma.  Tart cherries blend with a malty sweetness with caramel and toffee adding extra rich flavors.  Some Belgium yeast is noticeable near the finish with a big warmth from the higher abv showing up in the finish and after taste.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Creamy and smooth with a sticky sweetness on the palate.

Overall, a very impressive beer.  Great flavors and awesome balance.  Very rich and full.  A great cold night beer!  This one should be on your must try list! Try one!

Pours opaque with some yeast sediment visible.  The color is golden amber with a huge bubbly white head that settles down leaving a half inch of foam resting on top. Watery lacing.

The aroma is a blend of caramel, banana, clove, Belgian yeast and a hint of apple.

The taste is rich in sour fruit flavor.  Apple and banana blend with a spicy clove and a sweet caramel malt along side a light Belgian yeast.  Slightly sour with a zesty spicy finish.

Light to medium body with a high level of carbonation.  Prickly carbonation on the tongue with a dry yet sticky sweetness on the palate.

Overall a very nice Belgian from Ommegang.  Great flavors that are well balanced, complex and refreshing.  The light sour fruit flavors make this Belgian extra enjoyable.  Definitely a beer worth checking out.

Pours cloudy with an amber brown color and a lively two finger tan colored head.  Good retention on the head.  Thick lacing sheets down the sides of the glass.

The aroma is rich and sweet with prunes, raisins, honey, Belgium yeast and hints of spice.

The taste follows the aroma with a sticky sweetness and dark fruits, like prunes or raisins.  Bready malt flavors blend with a caramel or toffee sweetness and finishes with a zesty Belgium spice that lingers in the aftertaste.

Medium body with a medium to higher level of carbonation.  Between the higher carbonation and the zesty spices, the mouth feel has a  prickly sharpness on the tongue with a sticky sweetness.

Overall an another very nice beer from Ommegang.  Well balanced and very drinkable for a beer of the style.  Great flavors and are rich and enjoyable with every sip! A must try beer!

Short Rating
Arom 6 (22%)
Taste: 7 (40%)
Look: 8 (10%)
Drinkability: 6 (28%)
Overall: 6.6

Short Rating
Arom 10 (22%)
Taste: 10 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 9 (28%)
Overall: 9.6

Pours a ruby brown color with a half inch tan head.  The head settles out quickly leaving a thin layer resting on top.  Lots of lacing that sheets down the side of the glass.

Aroma is sweet malts and bread as well as some dark fruit and a bit of  citrus.  The aroma is very different.  I am not sure that I have ever experienced this arrangement of aromas in a beer before.  I am not saying it is bad.....just different.

Taste starts out with sweet malt characters and works into a bready nut flavor, finishing with a hint of dark fruit and a bit of chocolate and an earthy hop that helps bring down the sweetness on the finish.  I also detect some kind of spice on the finish that gives it a zing.

Medium body with an above average amount of carbonation.  Very drinkable while maintaining a slight creamy mouthfeel.  The sweetness on this beer tends to linger in the aftertaste.

Overall an interesting beer.  I like it and would have it again.  It has a lot going on, making it complex, fun, and interesting.  It's worth a try if not just for the unique factor.

Pours a deep mahogany brown with a big two finger tan head.  Good retention on the head with lacing sheeting down the sides of the glass before I take my first sip.  The lacing is thick and seems to almost have a sugary shimmer to it.

The aroma is sweet malt, dark roasted malts, maybe a hint of coffee as well as a milky lactose.  The aroma has a creaminess to it that is very inviting.

The taste is similar to the aroma. Bold roasted malts work into a milky sweet chocolate flavor and finishes with a slightly bitter coffee flavor.

Medium to full body with a light carbonation.  A dryness on the palate with a sweet stickiness on the lips.

Overall an enjoyable beer.  Nice flavors that blend well together.  The flavors seem a bit muted to me, if everything was bumped up a notch, this beer would be a real stand out in the crowd.  An easy drinking beer that I would have again.  Try one!

Pours a clear black color with a hint of ruby red around the edges of the glass.  The pour reveals a quarter inch khaki colored head that quickly dissipates, leaving a thin layer of foam resting on top.  Sticky web like lacing.

The aroma is dark roasted malts, chocolate, and coffee.

The taste is slightly sweet with dark roasted malts and a big earth hop presence that appears at the middle and works into a chocolate and coffee finish.  The aftertaste is mostly coffee and chocolate with a slight bitterness.

Medium body with light to medium carbonation.  A smooth creamy mouthfeel.


Note:  Every bottle I've opened has been a *minor* bottle bottle, that is it's over flowed a little.  Open with caution.

Look:  Deep gold, clear color, big super fluffy white head that clings heavily to edges of glass.

Arom  A lot of hops going on.  Slightest citrus, a lot of earthy.  It's sort of all there.  The smell of numerous 'classic' hops.  Slight sweet malt in background.

Taste:  Slight earthy hop profile, hint of citrus (like the aroma), ends with a spicyness.  All balanced by a followed by a malty sweetness.  Basically all the hops that could run along the 48th are represented- slightly.

It's a solid representative of hoppy beers, but it is NOT a classic California hoppy beer.  It leans towards the more subtle spicy, earth flavors.  That's fine, but it's not a... bold beer.

Light/medium carbonation, same with body, smooth.  Very accessible IPA, almost subtle and light for a IPA.

Pours a cloudy dark golden color with a hint of redness.  Huge head on this beer.  It was almost annoying.  I had to keep stopping and waiting for the head to settle before I could fill up my glass.  Head is light and fluffy with lots of sticky lacing.

Aroma is sweet. I am getting a nice caramel malt with a bit of citrus and pine hops.  Very pleasant.

Taste is sweet caramel malt up front that works its way into a smooth balance between citrus and pine hops.  I am also getting a bit of spice on the back end.  This is a very tasty beer with lot of character!

Medium body with medium carbonation. Milky and smooth on the palate.

Overall I am really enjoying this beer.  A nice balance between the malts and the hops.  I was expecting an insanely hopped up beer, but this is not a crazy hop bomb, just a really nice well balanced beer with some nice character.  Try One!

From bottle number 42.

Pours opaque.  Nary a head to speak of.  What little is there is a nice foam color but that is just a ring.  Sporadic and spotty lacing.

Aroma is enticing.  Sweet molasses couples with vanilla.  Bourbon and oak take a back seat but support.  Dark cherries.

Taste is fantastic.  Vanilla, molasses, and oak create a delectable trio.  Bourbon, chocolate, and sweetness add complexity and interest.  The oak is late, lingering; pleasant.

Big body with almost no carbonation.  Slightly dry.

This is my first Eclipse beer, my expectations were exceeded.  This is a fantastic beer.  The price point doesn't make it attainable for all but if you can scrounge up the loose change, well worth it.  Enjoy!

A - Deep, rich brown with a 1/4 inch foam head that remains ringed around the top edge of the beer in my snifter. The foam's color was light brown and the texture was small, soft bubbles.

S - Medium bodied So American coffee and layers of malt that eventually reach roasted. Under layer of hop aroma, pine or spice to my nose.

T - Smoothest oatmeal stout that I've had, key word is oats. Having velvet in the name is not hyperbole. Then I am hit with semi-sweet toffee and bakers chocolate. The mouth-feel and flavors of this brew compliment each other very well. As I've indicated many times, I want my beer carbonated, and this beer has my proper level that's a tad pronounced. Finally the roastiness comes lightly tripping in. I really like fact this brew isn't close to sweet, and almost finishes dry. At 5.5% abv no issues with alcohol level balancing.

O - This is one of the first styles that I became aware of in the early days of the resurgence of American craft brewing. Probably the thing I most like about this beer would be the pairability it would have with certain foods. I like many folks, like a wider definition of a style, and the FW execution of Oatmeal Stout does slightly bend a couple of borders. But I mean that in the most positive way. I hugely respect the brewing results from Firestone Walker, and this is just another small proof point.

 Clear, rich golden amber. Delicate white foam

 Caramel malts, then fruity (mango) and citrus (mostly orange, than faint grapefruit. Very appealing

 Luscious is my first impression. Rich fruitiness of mango, apples, and orange is first. The balance of soft sweetness and mild hop bitterness is perfect, in my opinion. Low to medium mouthfeel, not sticky in any way. Carbonation is good.

 Without much excess to Troegs, I wasn't sure if all the accolades for this brew weren't just provincialism. Now, I know it isn't just hype, this is a really good brew. The Imperial Amber style designation threw me off a little, but I'm not really into style if it tastes good. It's a fresh and fruity brew that subtle in it's sweetness. I was lucky enough to trade for 3-bottles, wish I could have had more.

Pours a clear amber color with an inch of off white frothy head that settles into a thin tightly formed layer of foam resting on top.  Thick watery lacing sheets down the sides of the glass.

The aroma is sweet with floral hops and caramel malts.  A sweetness almost like honey that is very pleasing.

The taste is sweet up front and works into a floral hop. Finishing with an herbal tea like flavor.  Green tea with honey is what comes to mind as this flavor lingers on the palate.  A slight bitterness that is also sweet on the finish.

Light body with light to medium carbonation.  Nothing stands out on the mouthfeel for me.  Smooth yet watery and very drinkable.

This is a very tasty brew! Very well balanced between the sweet malts and the floral and herbal hops.  Some really unusual flavors that I have never tasted in a beer and makes this beer really stand out in a good way! Very drinkable and fun!  Try one!

Pours black with a hint of ruby redness when held up to the light.  The pour offers a two finger frothy tan head.  The head settles out after a few minutes leaving a thin layer of tan foam resting on top.  Lacing start immediately and sheets down the sides of the glass.

The aroma is malty with a strong presence of coffee and a bit of sweet chocolate.  I also detect a spice of some sort that I will assume is juniper berry as I am not sure that I have ever knowingly smelt juniper berries before and that is what is says on the label.

The taste is big and bold.  Starts with burnt dark malts and bitter chocolate that give way to a sharp pine hop bitterness.  The pine hop follows through to the finish with an earth hop flavor making an appearance in the aftertaste along slide a big dark coffee taste.  Big bold fairly bitter beer.

Big body with medium carbonation.  A heavier slightly creamy mouth feel with a sharp pine hop zing.

Overall I would say that this is a really nice winter beer.  Dark robust flavors with a nice level of layers and complexity.  I enjoy the pine hop kick mixed with the dark malts, chocolates and coffee.  This is a big beer with big flavor that might have some running, but this is a solid winter beer in my opinion.  I'll have another!

Pours opaque with an inch of light brown foam that is large bubbled and is loose.  Retention is average while lacing completely coats the glass but sinks back.

Aroma is roasted malt and more blueberries than expected.  Chocolate and coffee also play a subtle roll.

Taste is more of the same.  Roasted malt is the highlight with a burnt sensation coming late and leaving a bitterness into the finish.  Chocolate and coffee are once again subtle.  Blueberry is pleasant and easy.

Light end of heavy body with medium carbonation.  Dries the palate.

More than expected, especially from a blueberry stout.  The roast flavors are quite big and fit the beer well.    The blueberries are there but only compliment the overall stout.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque with a third of a glass full of brown, thick foam.  Retention is inspiring, frothing as it recedes.   No real lacing to speak of.

Aroma first impresses with lots of dark fruits and roasted malt.  Chocolate and sweetness come next with coffee bringing up the rear.

Taste is the same.  Roasted malt and dark cherry and raisins make the up the flavors.  The finish is two fol bitter chocolate early that slowly brings up coffee, transitioning back to chocolate.  Long lasting.

Big end of medium body with minimal carbonation.  Hints of alcohol accompany the dry, sticky lips.

The finish leaves me bewildered as there are other flavors that I can't quite put my finger.  A good example that is quite nice.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque with a finger of mocha colored, thick foam.  Retention is nice but eventually recedes to a creamy ring around the snifter edges.  Lacing is thick, lasting and coating, retreating while leaving half behind.

Aroma is rich.  Licorice, roast and chocolate.  Caramel.  Quite nice.

Taste of roast, caramel and chocolate are blended, yet distinct.

Big body with a stiff carbonation thickens the body.  Creaminess to the sip.  Dries the palate, leaves the lips slightly sticky.

A solid offering, again, from Jackie O's.  In spite of the alcohol level there is none to be found in each fantastic sip.  Not over the top: well rounded.  Enjoy.

Pours slightly cloudy.  Pure white foam covers but runs away faster that Carl Lewis.  No lacing.

Aroma of light bread malts and lemon grass.

Taste follows.  Light.  Refreshing.  Bread and lemon.

Light body and medium body form crisp, subtlety dry finish.

Easy drinking.  Not as bad as some rating sites suggest.  Enjoy!

Shared with Rich on Thanksgiving to celebrate his birthday which was the day before.

Pours opaque with minimal brown foam that has no staying power or lacing.  The quality is in the beer not the visual.

Aroma is intense.  Chocolate is first an foremost.  Bourbon, vanilla, and molasses are not far behind.

Taste brings more of the same but there is a lack alcohol presence.  A smooth beer lies underneath and is dangerously drinkable two years after release.

Big body with with mild carbonation.  The beer doesn't need any help feeling bigger.

A great blend that couldn't be easier to drink in spite of the size of the beer.  This is my second tango with this beer, a year later, and this time around it is fantastic.  Enjoy!

Pours with a slight chill haze.  Ample pure white foam covers.  Good retention.   Nary the lacing.

Aroma brings subtle pine.  Even lighter floral.  Malt sweetness brings up the back end.

Taste is somewhat mute.  Not enough malt to give it much interest while the hops were stronger in the aroma.

Light body with strong carbonation, creating a dry and crisp finish.

A nice beer.  Doesn't do anything extraordinary to the style.  Light and crisp without any lingering bitterness.  Enjoy!

Pour opaque.  Half glass of tan foam that is thick and frothy.  Slow recession leaves a rocky head.  Lacing is plentiful, immediate.

Aroma is stinging pine hops.  Chocolate.  Caramel hidden behind the hops.

Taste is creamy to the lips to start.  Hops begins in the middle, lasting to the finish, creating a bitter end.  Pine, light citrus and a touch of sweet.

Medium body and carbonation.  The beginning of the sip has a nice creaminess.  Dry.

A solid beer, slightly above average.  Too much bitterness in the finish to make it easy drinking.  Enjoy!

Pours cloudy but not opaque.  Frivolous amounts pure white, fleeting foam covers.  Quickly disappears with no chance of lacing.

Lemon hits the nose first.  Sour, wheat and refreshingly crisp on the nose.  Light sea salt.

Taste is lemon, wheat, salt, and tart.  Tart on the edge of sour.

Light body with spritzy carbonation.  Dry on the palate.

The combination of the salt and lacto sourness, laced with the dry finish, make for an insatiably drinkable beer.  One of the few goses I have had but definitely turns me onto the style.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque with an inch of thick, mocha colored foam.  Retention and lacing are not cooperating.

Aroma is roasted coffee intertwined with a roasted sweetness.  Direct.

Taste has roasted coffee up front, slowly fading by the finish.  The lactose sweetness picks up, creating an oiliness that lingers.  Roasted end, seemingly for balance lasts as well.

Medium body.  About the same carbonation.  Lightly creamy.

The strong coffee, sweetness and roast attempt to create a balance but each is too distinct, overbearing and doesn't gel with the others.  Enjoy!

Pours a clear amber color with a thick sticky layer of frothy white head.  The head settles out leaving a thin swirl of foam resting on top.  Nice lacing.

The aroma is rich in pine and citrus grapefruit. A sweetness with a caramel malt back end.

The taste starts sweet with nice caramel malt flavor that works into a nice blend of hops.  Pine, citrus, grapefruit are all present and balance out the sweetness in the hops perfectly.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Creamy and slightly oily mouth feel.

Overall, this is an impressive beer!  Two Brothers shows some serious talent with this one.  Very drinkable and refreshing with an amazing balance!  Put this one on your must try list!

Pours opaque.  Small floating particulate. Half inch of mocha foam.  Better than average retention.  Lacing exist thin, spotty.

Aroma is dark fruit, alcohol and candy sugar sweetness.  Alcohol twinges the nose on deep wafts.  Light earth musk.  Chocolate.

Taste is chocolate malt up front.  Middle bring candy sugar and dark fruit.  End brings a lingering alcohol.

Body is rather big but not large.  Medium carbonation, at best.  Creamy.  Big alcohol.  Lingers but is cut by sweetness and bitter side.

The alcohol keeps this beer from being easily drinkable, surprising for a beer under 9%.  Definitely needs to mellow.  Enjoy!

Batch 05X1E

Pours crystal clear with a half glass of pure white foam with meringue features.  Retention is average with spotty, juicy lacing.

Aroma is light yet seemingly complex.  Brett funk, pear, grape, and Chardonnay scents.  Hay and lemon also rise from the glass.

Taste is once again subtlety complex.  Oak and vanilla are more prominent here and carry throughout the beer.  Brett funk blends with pear and grape to aid in the beginning and middle.

Light body with a well fit carbonation.  The dries in the finish to keep one thirsty.

I was expecting a more sour beer but the subtle yet complex experience of this beer has quickly raised it in the ranks.  A refreshing and easy drinker that keeps inviting one back.  Possibly my favorite of the Russian River wild ales.  Enjoy!

Update 10/20/2012: I agree with everything I said a year ago in 2011. Except now it costs $3.29 a bottle, and could only get 1-12ozer. Wish I could have more.

 It's color is golden gold, looks like real gold. It's got an ever so slight haze or maybe misty. White and soft small sized bubble foam with distinct lacing on the side of my pint glass.

 Great initial reaction, got a huge blast of orange citrus, some tropical fruits in the background. Seems like more straw aroma notes than any big malty direction. Stacks up tall against big IPAs, and definately West Coaster all the way through the nose.

 Extremely well balanced. First a full malt starts to wallow up, that's then very quickly over-run by a building hop bitterness, but that also quickly dials into a relaxed mind-melt of equalled parts. This brew is neither sweet nor roughly hopped. The 70 ibu's seems a perfect level to make this brew hopped up, but not over the top. The citrus is more of a feel than a flavor at this point. It's definately dry, but in sopisticated way. Finally, the mouthfeel is right where it should be for this type of beer, dead in the middle of light and heavy.

 I don't know why I didn't expect more of this brew. Short sighted cause Founder's best plays are BBA caramely darks. Sure I'm guility on that count. First, this brew is very well crafted and balanced. And it's nice to have such a robust build in a 6.5% abv. While it starts out like a regular West Coast IPA, it's got it's own profile on the hop flavor. Less fruity citrus, and more woodsy floral. My only knock is the price of $2.50 for a 12-oz bottle. (Why are Cali brews so much less expensive?) Overall this an awesome variant of the quickly, expanding seasonal offerings of harvest or fresh hopped IPAs. You've can't say you've experienced the top of the harvest ales without tipping this brew.

Pours clear with almost a half glass of off-white, frothy foam.  Retention is above average with lacing that is slippery.

Aroma is bread malt with citrus and lemon grass.

Taste is sweet with slight bread malt.  Citrus (minor) and lemon grass come in the finish.

Light body and light carbonation.

Very little notice of the alcohol: it is so well hidden that a warm day could be dangerous in terms of the number of these you could throw back.  Enjoy!

I have had this beer many times, but never reviewed it.  Seeing that this is the last one in the fridge, I figured tonight would be a good night to give it an official review.  So here goes it....

Pours a clear straw color with a one finger crisp white foamy head.  Good retention on the head as it is present from start to finish on this beer.  Spotty watery lacing.

Aroma is crisp and clean.  Floral and citrus hops with a bit of malt.

Taste is crisp and clean to match the aroma.  Starts with a sweet malt and works into a bold floral hop flavor with a well matched citrus hop mixed in on the backend.  Sweet from start to finish, but in a very pleasant well balance way.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Creamy mouthfeel, but at the same time light on the palate.

A very nice beer all the way around.  Very well balanced and easy to drink.  Nice balance and complexity between the sweet malts and the hops.  A fresh 6 pack of this beer is a must have at least once per season for me. Any easy to find beer that is a must try for a hop lover!

Pours a clear deep golden color with two fingers of white head.  Decent retention with moderate lacing.

Aroma is a mix of pumpkin, clove, nutmeg and cinnamon.  Reminds me of pumpkin pie with a bit of sweetness to it.

Taste is similar to the aroma.  Pumpkin, nutmeg, cinnamon, clove.  Again very much like pumpkin pie.  The taste is not as impressive as the aroma.  Fairly mellow and moderately sweet.

Light to medium body with medium carbonation.  Watery mouth feel while leaving the palate with a sweet sticky feeling.

Overall a nice refreshing fall beer.  Nice flavors and aroma, I just wish the taste was a big as the aroma.  Well balanced with good drink ability.  Try one!

Pours opaque with a huge, half glass, tan, thick foam.  Retention is quite outstanding with the foam frothing up a bit.  Lacing is sheeting but very quickly seeks the level.

Aroma is roasted malt, coffee, and chocolate.  I guess what should have been expected.  The coffee aroma wasn't as exaggerated as I had expected, which is a good thing allowing the beer to have a nice balance.

Taste has a big amount of coffee that is offset by roasted malt.  They are so well infused that it is hard to find them apart.  There is some coffee and chocolate bitterness in the finish.  A touch of sweetness like in a milk stout.

Medium body and maybe a wee bit more.  Really no carbonation but there is a bit of creaminess to the beer.

I have to admit I expected a little less from this beer than I received but nonetheless it wasn't anything spectacular either.  The coffee was subtle and in hind sight, maybe too subtle.  The base stout itself was nothing to write home about.  Sort of a nice coffee stout but nothing fantastic or earth shattering.  Enjoy!

Pours clear.  Foam is light tan to off-white about an inch thick.  Frothy.  Great retention that immediately creates frothy, thick and sticky lacing.

Aroma is caramel malt and pine and citrus hops.  Straight forward.  Unfortunately deep wafts produce hints of alcohol.

Taste is sweet throughou caramel and toffee, possibly hints of darker sweet malts as well.  Citrus, specifically grapefruit, and pine take over in the middle, cooperating to create a good, lingering bitterness.

Medium to light end of high body.  Complimentary carbonation.  Dry.

A throw back type of IIP bitterness reigns.   Good flavor and aroma but a couple minor issue aroma of alcohol and good, linger bitterness.  Still, an above average beer.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque with an inch of dark tan foam that is tightly packed in spite of the medium sized bubbles inter mingling.  Retention is dead on while lacing is micro-dots and sporadic.

Aroma seems to have cherries up front.  More inspection shows tartness, earthy darkness, wood, spice, and even a touch of vinegar.

Taste is a combination of cherry tartness that builds throughout and lingering late in the back of the mouth.  Earth and wood add elements of complexity while a spice flavor tricks the mouth and adds the finish.   Vinegar and sherry can be heavy at times.

No carbonation here at all that detracts from the mouth making it medium.

A nice beer but there was something in the middle of the taste I can't explain that took away from the over good tasting experience.  An interesting beer but just slightly too much vinegar for me.  Enjoy!

Pours a dark black like motor oil with a thick dark tan head.  Great retention on the head.  Thick heavy lacing.

Aroma is big and strong.  I am getting some hints of booze, dark fruits possibly cherries, dark coco, dark roasted malts and molasses.

Taste is surprisingly bitter on the first sip.  Lots of strong dark flavors here.  I am getting similar flavors as the aroma and some heat from the alcohol.  Chocolate, molasses, licorice and roasted malts.

Big body with medium carbonation.  Smooth and creamy mouth feel.  Bitter dry finish.

Overall this is a really tasty beer with huge flavors. It is well balance and a great beer for a chilly night.  The alcohol in this beer is a really warming.  Between the high abv and the heavy dark flavors you won't want to drink very many of these in one sitting. This is a must try beer!

Pours with a chill haze and a bit more than a finger of frothy foam.  Above average retention.  Solid lacing throughout.

Aroma is more malt forward than hop.  Deep, rich caramel, almost toffee but too sweet while including hints of dark fruits.  Roasted, almost burnt comes to mind.  Hop are resinous, some citrus.

Taste starts off subtle before a huge hit of malt in the middle that lasts to the end, lingering in the finish.  Hops attempt to balance but sweet, light bitterness in the finish accompanies the malt.

Medium body.  Carbonation is a step up.  Tries to dry the mouth but the sweet malt won't let it.

Double IPAs are best served as hop bombs.  This is a sweet and malty.  Too much malt.  Too forward.  I would have it again in a pinch but there are so many others out there that do a much better job.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque with hints of red on the edges.  Huge tan foam has great staying power.  Lacing is frequent, sticky and throughout.

Aroma of pine and roast are strongest.  Chocolate.  Hints of citrus.  The pine is the strongest, the roast just adds support without dominating.  Toffee.

Taste is roast, chocolate and a touch of sweetness.  Pine hops pairs with roast and chalk to balance the finish.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Chalky, possibly black malt, which dries the palate while the rest leaves the mouth somewhat juicy.

Nice balance of dark, sweet and hops.  The chalky finish is my biggest gripe: it sticks around too long.  One of the better black ales I have had lately.  Enjoy!

Pours clear.  Inch of small bubbled, tan foam.  Good retention while frothy mildly.  Sporadic thin, sticky lacing.

Aroma is big on rye.  Caramel rides shotgun while citrus hops brings up the rear.

Taste is sweet up front.  Rye in the middle to the finish, joined by citrus.  Rye gives a nice spicey bite while the hops add a slight balancing bitterness.

Medium body.  Medium or better carbonation.  Dry.  No alcohol.

Had the bottle for a couple of months and don't know how old it is since there isn't a date on the bottle.  Feel the citrus would be stronger, giving the beer even more balance.  The rye is perfect in this beer, might be overpowering for some.  Still the a bit tough to throw down lots of this stuff.  Nice offering.  Enjoy!

Pours cloudy with a pure white head.  Retention isn't there.  Lacing is juicing, spotty, and eventually rolls back between sips.

Aroma is sweet up front.  Passion fruit adds a tropical note that is aided by a shallow tartness.  Coriander orange and pepper are there as well.

Tart, tropical passion fruit and sweetness carry this beer.  The fruit carries tartness.  Orange and pepper are there but take a back seat.

Medium body and carbonation.  Juicy early, becoming dry late.

The passion fruit and tartness add a nice layer to the beer.  Definitely easy to drink.  I think the price point is a bit high, otherwise no complaints.  Enjoy!

 What color do you think Blackout Stout is?

 Cherries, chocolate, coffee, vanilla, and more. Get the drift, this brews stuffs both nostrils with the scents of the best moments is life. Can it taste as good as it smells?

 Multi dark fruits, not thick at all, but thin in a distilled liquorious way. The after taste in my mouth is complex, but thoroughly enjoyable.

 So different than the other big midwest Imperial Stouts. But I mean that in the best possible way. So much less thick and full than others, but not less melange of flavors.

Pours a deep amber brown with a nice half inch head that settles out quickly leaves just a milky swirl floating on top. Lacing sheets and is watery.

Aroma is mostly nut and malt.

Taste is mostly nut and sweet carmel malt with a hint of coffee or chocolate.

Mouth feel is watery.

Light body with medium to high carbonation.

Overall not bad, but not super impressed. It's an easy drinking beer, but not super exciting. Pretty average.

Pours clear while the vigorous pour into my pint glass brings on a huge, half glass or more, tan, compacted foam.  Retention is well above average with the foam frothing up even more.  Lacing.

Aroma is nut and roasted malt while coffee rides softly on their backs.

Taste seems to follow.  Nutty and roasted malts create a sense of sweetness.  Espresso arrives in the middle to the end creating a good sense of bitterness in the finish.  Maybe a bit of tobacco in the middle.

Medium body with a low amount of carbonation.  A sense of dryness and creaminess is there too.

I definitely don't get the espresso as it seem many have.  I would like to taste the base beer but this beer is okay, not great.  I have had the bottle for three months so maybe some of the espresso fell out.  Having a hard time with words here as I want this beer to better than my taste buds are allowing.  Enjoy!

Pours clear.  Light pink foam quickly runs and hides.  No lacing.

Aroma is tart, musty with a touch of sweet blueberry.  Notion of oak.

Taste lightly sweet up front with building blueberry tart and must from the middle, end and into the finish, lingering.  Oak is there to add complexity.  Sour and acidic

Mouthfeel is thin but tons of carbonation.  Crisp.  Refreshing.  Dry.

Good amounts of blueberry sweet and tart.  Another handsome offering from this line of beers.  Enjoy!

Brewed in 2009, bottled January 27, 2010.

Pours clear but closing in on opaque from the depth of color.  Foam is nary a part of this beer.  A couple of sporadic splotches dot the glass with lacing.

Aroma comes with toffee, caramel, and toasted malts are boldest.  Peat is to found as is oxidation.  The oxidation doesn't take away from the aroma though.  Dark fruits lie deep below: raisin and plum.

Taste is a mellow sweetness that is created from a lot of toffee.  Caramel and peat create a touch of complexity.  Plum comes through in the finish quite nicely and linger.

Not cloying, fortunately, making this beer high end of medium body.  Carbonation is low end of medium.  Dries a touch.

A balanced, complex grouping of malts.  The age might have helped the balance, keeping sticky sugars off the lips.  The peat adds complexity without taking away from the other components or mucking up the beer.  Nicely done.  Enjoy!

 Very pale straw with a haze. Small fluffy and delicate foal with medium retention.

 Very lemony, wheaty, and yeasty spiciness. Hard to detect the coriander in the nose. Very, very fresh scent.

 Wow, the most refeshing beer I've had in a while. Initial impression is that it will be spicy and sour, but that fades immediately into this awesome lemony and orangey that light in the right way. Not really sweet, but not sour yeasty. Medium carbonation.

 I've not always been a big fan of Wit's, this changed my mind. This is very tasty beer, light and fresh without being wimpy. And I like the abv of 5.0% is also a nice touch, versus some others in the genre that come in with low fuel. very nice work.

Pours clear with a wispy, white foam that is a side note to the beer.  Lacing is minimal as well.

Aroma seems to be light fruits up front.  Pear and grapes seem to be forward.  Coriander shows through nicely, actually up front with the fruits.

Taste is sweet up front with clean coming in the middle.  The end starts with pepper and builds to a really sweet orange.  The orange can be so strong that it gives the idea of orange pop.

Light body with about a medium fine bubbled carbonation.  Dries a bit.

There are a lot of things I like in this beer, unfortunately there are a few things that bother me.  The most glaring is the orange soda after taste that builds with each sip.  I like orange soda but not in my beer.  On the other hand the aroma is very pleasant.  Enjoy!

Pours brilliantly clear with a half inch of fine bubbled, white foam.  Retention is average, leaving traces of the heads' past glory in its wake.

Aroma is a bit different than I imagined.  Pepper and grass just explode on the nose.  It is bold and light at the same time.

Taste really profiles the hop.  The malt is subdued, slightly noticeable, same as the bitterness.  Pepper and grass are there, as in the nose, throughout.  The grass is bold.  The spice does linger, almost like a saison.

Mild carbonation and a light/medium body.  Not as dry as I was expecting based on the color.  Assumed low mash temperature, possibly some sugar added.  Maybe it was but it doesn't come through.

The beer is extremely drinkable.  A solid body really helps this beer and carries it for me.  The hop aroma is the one thing that I don't particularly care for, otherwise a solid offering.  Enjoy!

From bottle #213 with green wax.  3-20-15 date on bottle.

Poured clear into a snifter.  Half inch of white, thin foam covers.  Retention shouldn't cannot be used to describe the head; same for the lacing.

Aroma is crazy big.  Citrus hops up front, especially on bottle opening.  This seems to dissipate, with the sense becoming numbed by the presence of alcohol due to the aging process.  Complex.  Almost too intense.  Oak is easiest to capture.   The bourbon, rum and tequila take turns and blend as well.

Booze takes over the taste very quickly after a lack luster beginning.  Rum and, especially, tequila are brash on the palate.  Bourbon is muted.  Malt and hops have run home with their tales between their legs.

Mouthfeel is thin up front with the booze making it thick by the middle.  Mild, at best, carbonation.  Boozy.

A case of too much.  I think all the different agings cloud he aroma, which is otherwise fantastic, while making this a difficult beer to drink, even the taste suffers.  Too boozy.  Highs and lows.  Better for a big porter or stout?  I would have it again if served in a shot glass at room temperature.  Enjoy!

This is a bourbon barrel aged version.

Pours clear with a quarter inch of thin, white, fleeting foam.  Effervescence leaves the sides populated with tiny bubbles.

Aroma is a smooth mixture of old barleywine (dark cherry and plum) with some bourbon.  No noticeable oak or vanilla; time has probably removed those scents.   Surprisingly sweet, not caramel, just straight sweet.

Taste is a little bland for me.  Caramel, toffee sweetness that is lighter than the aroma.  The middle to end does bring in some dark fruit, similar to the nose, with bourbon and a touch of vanilla oakiness.

Lighter in the mouth than expected, especially the beginning of the taste.  Carbonation is very light.  A bit of a boozy burn from the alcohol.  Dry.

A little bit younger this beer might have been better, possible more bourbon.  The taste fell a little flat for me as did the thinness of the body.  Enjoy!

Pours a deep golden color with a quarter inch head.  Head has good retention with nice lacing.

Aroma is strong and not what I was expecting from an IPA.  I am getting lots of yeast, bread and grain type aromas mixed with a citrus hops.

Taste is nice and grows on me as I am drinking it.  I am getting a nice balance between the light sweet malt body and citrus hop finish.  This beer starts out strong with the bread and malt type character and works in to a citrus hops with a bitter on the finish.

Mouthfeel is rich and creamy.  Medium body with medium carbonation.

Overall I am enjoying this beer.  The aroma is a very unique to me, as I am not used to the strong malt and bread mixed with the citrus.   This is not a style that I have had very often with an IPA and I am enjoying the change.

 Deep, deep brown that's tough to see through. Surprisingly thick foam that's light brown in color.

 Dark dried fruits and toffee.

 Rich and dark fruity, with very moderate sweetness. Then there's a toffee and toast, that I really like. And the finish In awesome dryness and a kiss of alcohol.

 Really, great beer from Flying Dog. I kind of  forget about these guys, but very solid beers. This brew is a very restrained version of the style, that's meant as a total compliment.

Pours slightly cloudy.  White foam covers but retention is ridiculously minimal.  Lacing is quick to start and last throughout; sticky, clinging tightly.

Aroma of light, very light sweetness.  Hops have dropped as this beer seems to be old.  Grass, mainly due to the age.

Taste.  Not much going on.  Blah.  Sweet malt up front.  No bitterness.  No hop aroma.

Light body with minimal carbonation.  Dry but not crisp.

Let's start by saying this isn't a horrible beer, there is nothing that makes this beer better than average, at best.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque.  Head is off-white, not as deep of color expected for the style.  Quickly runs away and hides from its initial thin layer.  Wispy , sporadic lacing.

Aroma is too light.  Black dark malt, possibly nutty but not much else.  Faint.

Taste is similar to the arom not much going on.  Black malt, nutty, hints of licorice but that could be me wanting it to be there.  Nutty malt lingers.

Light to medium body.

This is an underwhelming beer.  Expecting creaminess from the oats along with other stout profile elements; they don't exist here.  Definitely much better examples out there.  Enjoy!

Two dates on the bottle: 03/23/15 and 09/23/15.  Brewed on, bottle on, consume on, etc?

Pours with a slight haze.  Served cold. Minimal, almost no, foam.  White and thin.  No lacing.

Aroma is white wine like, possibly pear. Light tart, thoughts of brett.  Overall, meager aromatics.

Taste is wine like up front, once again, pear is included.  Middle gives way to a sweet orange which lingers into the finish.  Sticks around.

Light up front with building body.  Still crisp.  Carbonation is almost absent.  Somewhat dry.

Interesting.  Don't know if it is good or bad.  The end into the finish is difficult to describe and the building body/sweetness just doesn't do it for me.  Enjoy!

Pours clear.  A huge amount of off-white, tiny bubbled foam covers.  Slow to retreat leaves no trace behind.  Frothy.

Aroma is straight forward and simple: caramel, toffee and hints of chocolate.

Taste is more sweet treats from the malt.  Suggests contamination.

Medium body with ridiculous amount of carbonation.

Too much malt and sweetness.  Expect American ambers to have more balance with hops.  Based on the amount of foam, more than half a glass, there is the start of an infection.  I can only grade the beer in front of me.  Enjoy!

Pours a deep amber brown, almost black, with a one inch creamy head.  Head dissipates quickly, leaving a milky swirl on the surface.

Aroma is rich in coffee, chocolate, and malt, with a sweetness to it.

Taste is similar to the aroma with a burnt chocolate and coffee flavor finishing in a malty sweetness.

Mouth feel was smooth and milky.

Overall I enjoyed this beer.  I tend to be a big fan of stouts and I felt like this was a enjoyable tasty brew.

A vigorous pour brings about a deep tan foam.  Retention is poor until the head is about half the original size, then it gracefully recedes.

Aroma of roasted malt with sweet lactose coming through, almost like cream.

Taste is a little light up front but sweet.  Roasted malt starts in the middle and continues to the end, becoming touched with coffee and bitter chocolate that lasts.

Medium body at best and maybe a little less.  Carbonation is gone but this is about a year old.

Not a bad stout here.  It has the characteristics that you would expect from a milk stout.  Some might think the body doesn't hold up but not all stouts have to be huge.  Enjoy!

Pours cloudy with a nice, two inch, tan, frothy foam to top it off.  Retention is long lasting, settling, and frothy.  Lacing somewhat sticky while web like in places it is sheeting in others.

Aroma has a little evidence of hops on the back end but the rest is really sweet malt caramel and toffee.  But I don't get much of that as the scent is weak.

Taste is mildly sweet up front with it building where it meets some bitterness in the middle that carries and continues to build through the end.  The sweetness is throughout and the occasional sip will bring on booze.

Big end of body with a medium carbonation on top of a soft creaminess.  Not cloying whatsoever in spite of the large amount of sweets.

Overall it is an okay beer.  The booziness seems out of the place as 8.5% ABV just isn't that huge to me.  I have had beers with more and less noticeable.  The sweetness isn't bad as it is balanced but the lack of aroma just doesn't help the taste either.  Enjoy!

Pours a deep brown color with a thin zesty tan head that quickly settles out leaving a thin swirl of foam resting on top. No lacing.

The aroma is amazing.  Cherries and more cherries with a tartness that is mouth watering!

The taste follows the aroma very closely and is just as impressive.  Sweet cherries up front working into a cherry tartness with soft vanilla hints of oak on the finish.  An unbelievable freshness in the cherry flavor!

Light to medium body with a high level of carbonation.

Overall, an impressive beer! Amazing aroma and flavors!  Very drinkable and refreshing! Not really a traditional "stout", but who cares, this beer rocks!  Try one!

 Deep clear mahgony brown. The small tan head quickly disapated.

 Subtle citrus hop aroma surrounded by small chocolately malt. Welcome light is on.

 Awesome mix of hop bitternes and a slight smoky malt. Fresh and dry, then a fading grassy or woodiness in the final hop notes.

 This style is not without it's controversy. Let me declare up front that I am a fan of the style. This beer shows the diversity in a young branch of a new american style. I like the sophisticated blend of piney hop resin and smoky woodiness in the dry clarity of a sweetness void. It's an adult beverage. And I've been wanting to sample anything from theis brewery.

Pours a deep muddy amber with minimal head with spotty lacing that melts down the side of the glass.

Aroma is strong and rich.  Not very hoppy.  I am getting a lot of sweet sticky malts and a plum or raisin aroma.

Taste sweet sticky and tangy with lots of malt.  Not much hops.  Scot says this beer may be a little old, so that might explain the lack of hops.

Not bad, but not very amazing like I am used to when I rate beers with Scot.  Would love to try one that is fresh, I might have a whole different option.

Review #300

I have had this beer may times and have always enjoy it, so it is finally time to give it an official review.

Pours black with a hint of ruby red around the edges of the glass.  The pour produces a nice thick heavy one inch head, khaki in color.  Lacing sheets down the sides of the glass.

The aroma is rich and inviting.  Coffee, chocolate, and sweet malts blend together with a heavy creaminess.

The taste is creamy and smooth and just as rich and impressive as the aroma.  Coffee, Chocolate, and sweet malts with coffee being the biggest player.  Perfectly balanced flavors with a hints of bitterness from the coffee off setting the sweetness.

Heavy body with medium carbonation.  Creamy and smooth on the palate with sweet sticky feel on the lips and a touch of dryness on the finish.

Overall, an amazing beer.  This is one of my favorite oatmeal stouts.  Everything about this beer is right on the money for me.  Perfectly balanced and unbelievable creamy and smooth!  If your a fan of oatmeal stouts, this needs to be on your must try list!

Pours clear with about an each of creamy, tan foam.  Retention is quite good with the foam becoming frothy as it goes.  Lacing is sporadic but thick.

Aroma is full of nittiness with a touch of darker malts in the background as well as some sweetness, maybe toffee.

Taste is much more roasted malt dominated.  There is sweet, nutty, and toffee, but the roasted just over powers them a touch.  Not in a bad way.  Touch of hops but no real bitterness.

Mouth is about medium with a mild carbonation but there is a creaminess that lends body.

Not a beer that is going to make you write home to Mom but on a cold afternoon in January, it is an easy drinker that had some nice qualities.  I would have it again but I wouldn't go run and get more either.  There is a slight malty aftertaste that I don't care for thought.  Enjoy!

Pours a cloudy straw color with a nice half inch head.  Head dissipates quickly leaving a thin layer of light bubbly foam on top.

Aroma is very fresh and inviting.  I am getting a nice clove aroma mixed with wheat.  I am also getting a nice hint of a spice.

The Taste is amazing.  The beer is really well balanced.  I am getting sweet malt mixed with a banana flavor upfront.  This works its way into an amazing blend of banana, sweet malt, wheat, and nice clove. Again I am getting a little bit of spice on the backend.

Mouth feel on this beer is great.  Smooth with a bit of creaminess.  Light body with medium to high carbonation.

Overall I am really impressed with this beer.  It is very complex in taste as well as aroma, but very drinkable and well balanced.  This one has just joined my list of favorites!  Try one!

 Deep side of pale amber with thick haze but not floaters. Full and thick off white faom of medium retention.

 Pepper and citrus hops upfront. Appealing but subtle.

  Citrus bitterness totally overtakes sweetness. The citrus seems more grapefruit than anything else. But it's more mellow red, than bruising biting grapefruit. Thin but a tad oily. Carbonation a little light.

 At first this seemed like it would be a bruising DIPA, but it turned out to be very drinkable. Don't get me wrong, this brew's got a monster hop build. But the hop profile is high grade and very unique.

 Rich and deep gold, with only a very slight haze. Fluffy and thicj off white foam of medium high retention.

 Caramel, biscuity, and then a faint citrus aroma. I'd say it's inviting.

 The essential elements are extremely well balanced. Very equal parts sweetness, citrusy hop, and bitterness. The malt sweetness is all caramel or toffee. There's also a touch of fruit notes also contributing to the depth of sweetness. Drys out but not too quickly. Mouthfeel and carbonation are both pretty normal.

 Really appealling brew. Skews a little malt sweet. The hops are still there, just more of an accent then the main show. It's just a rich and full flavored brew, that's has it's complexity revealed more slowly than most brews. I just liked all the sweet flavors, and the spicyness from the hops and rye.

Pours clear (possibly a slight haze that wasn't a chill haze, this was down to temperature).  A vigorous pour brings out a half glass of slight off-white, frothy, medium sized bubbled foam.  Retention is way above average with thick, sliding lacing.

Aroma makes me think cherries and some funk.  Almost like a sour.  Sweetness and acidic that seem to balance well.  A touch of light spice.

Taste is quite interesting for a lager.  I know there are plums but the flavor is tart cherries with a little bit of dark fruit in there that I couldn't say is plums without knowing it first.  Once again, similar to the aroma, sweet and acidic are somewhat balanced.  The end and finish to the beer become more dominated by the plum with a tartness lasting into the finish with some spice.

Light end of medium body might be a little over stating the mouth.  Carbonation is close to the middle.

I will have to say this is one of the few lagers that I have had that wasn't completely clear.  I would imagine that this from the fruit?   Rye is subtle with the spice at the tail end of the beer.  The tart fruit aspect is interesting for a lager.  Interesting but not their best off-beat beer.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with several inches of slightly off white foam that is full of very large bubbles.  Retention is about average with lacing is not apparent.

Aroma is light but spice and pumpkin are evident with sweet twist.  Cinnamon and nutmeg are the most obvious spices and quite possibly the only.

Taste is very laid back.  Slight bread/toast malt give way to pumpkin, cinnamon, and nutmeg which all come in the end, lingering in the back of the mouth.

Light body with a carbonation that doses the tip of the tongue.  Strangely the carbonation seems to sit on the tongue.

The subdued spice make this one drinkable but, as with any spice beer, the spices build, delaying the time between sips.  Definitely would find the time for The Great Pumpkin again.  Enjoy!

Like the bottle said, black with tan head.  A hint of brown in color, but almost black.  No translucence when held to light.  Clingy tan head.

Aroma.  Black Patent, Special II, the smell of dark roasted malts.
Flavor.  Wow, all dark malts.  Burnt chocolate, roasted coffesque bitter finish that lasts.  Like the bottle said, 'it lingers'.
Body.  Light/medium.
Carbonation:  Light/medium

Very good.

Pours clear with a huge white, thick foam.  Retention is amazing as the froth builds, lacing is left that is sticky but light.

Aroma is sweet caramel malt hidden behind bold hop scent floral and citrus.

Taste starts off sort of bland with middle having some sweet and bread malt with both building through to the finish.  The bold hops aren't present in the mouth.  Floral hops are most prevalent and a delicate balance.

Very light mouth and minimal carbonation.

Drinkable to the nth degree.  Definitely a summer beer that would be great when it is hot and humid in the midwest.  It isn't ground breaking, just darn good.  Enjoy!

Pours cloudy with some floaties.  White, wispy foam covers the beer.  Retention is minimal while lacing is sheeting an non-sticky.

Aroma is citrus, pine, and fruity hops.  There is malt sweetness too.  Quite good on the sniffer.

Taste is full of fruits and citrus with sweet and pine notes.  The fruit and citrus are the biggest attractions with mild bitterness at most in the finish.  Quite a pleasant profile.

Medium body with a crisp carbonation.

The fruity, citrus combination is out of site as it hits the taste buds and olfactory perfectly.  I wish I could have a steady supply.  Enjoy!

 Rich deep amber. Nice off-white full foam head of medium retention.

 Very low level notes, and hard to get a read on anything specfic.

 Spicy, piney note, and woody flavors.  Very clean, dry, and almost no sweetness. Medium mouthfeel, but I think of it as thin beer. The hops are a big part of this, you can taste the pepperiness on every mouthfull, but not really a hop bite.

 There a really balance to the brew, and a totally original personality. There's a very preceise clean cut in the taste. It high spiciness doesn't have a downside of some other non-balancing flavors, it stands somewhat alone. It's an adult taste profile, sophisticated and aloof.

Bottle 445 of 838.

Pours a bit cloudy with an enormous helping of white, meringue foam on top.  Retention is in another echelon with thick, sticky lacing.

Aroma is fruit and spice that is punctured by sweet and ever so light tart.  Natural earth notice accent the more dominant scent.

Taste has fruit and sweetness.  Grape and citrus are the but subtle as is most of the flavors, yet they pull together to create a complex drink. Tart and, at times, give me thought of sweet tarts but light on the tart.

Light end of medium body or just a bit less.  Carbonation is full bore while drying the palate subtlety.

Everything about this beer is subtle but it comes together in crisp, complex offering.  Had a very difficult time describing the beer but it is worth a visit.  Enjoy!

Pours cloudy with a half glass of thick, medium sized bubbled, off-white foam that has above average staying power.  Sporadic thin but sticky lacing abounds.

Aroma is in your face juniper.  Sage mingles with juicy citrus hops.  Light malt provides a semi-sweet backbone.  The sage also gives off a sense of earthiness.

Taste is sweet at first with sage taking over in the middle mixing through to the end with juniper and hops.  Bitterness swells in the finish tempered slightly by the berries and sage, nonetheless leaving a strange

Thin for everything that is going on in the beer with medium carbonation.

An interesting beer with the twist of juniper and sage.  Not something that I would want often and question if I really want again.  Nicely made just not my fancy.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with a vigorous pour bringing on a half glass of thick, white, frothy foam.  Retention is above average and begins leaving sticky, thin lace right away.

Aroma is a complex mix of citrus hop orange, tangerine, pine apple, and even mild grapefruit.  Pine tweaks the nose while a sweetness permeates from the hops.  Slight bread/grain comes from malt.

Taste is slightly sweet up front giving way in the middle to bread flavors mixed with the beginnings of the hop charge.  Citrus hops are lead by by grapefruit and trailing pine.  Surprisingly light bitterness in the finish.  The more you drink the more the grapefruit bitterness builds.

Medium body with a medium carbonation that is clean.  Leaves the mouth somewhat dry in spite of the juiciness of the hops.

Much more than I expected from this beer, especially since I had almost none.  The hops is so nicely complex with a perfect blend to please the senses.  Definitely one to find again.  Enjoy!

Picked up a bomber of this at my local liquor store yesterday.

Pours a dark black with a huge "root beer" style head. Great retention with thick globs of lacing on the sides of the glass. This beer has a very appealing look!

Aroma is mellow. Nothing super amazing going on here. Mostly malts.

Taste is a nice balance between malts and hops and finishes with a dry bitterness. This beer is simple, but good. This beer is rich and satisfying. The dry bitterness on the backend keeps me coming back for another sip.

Overall this is a good beer. Very enjoyable, but not anything that is over the top amazing...just a good beer!

From a 2009 bottle.

Pours opaque with a half inch of brown foam that retreats rather quickly.  Lacing is sporadic, leaving minimal traces that stick.

Aroma has chocolate, smoky bourbon, and alcohol.  Dark fruits, slight oak, vanilla, toffee, and more.

Taste is sweet up front but not overly.  Brown sugar, molasses, chocolate, bourbon, oak, and vanilla all play a roll in the mouth, creating a fantastic journey for the taste buds.

Big mouth feel with mild carbonation, more than expected from a 3 year old bottle.  Dries the palate a bit.

Not one of those cloying big stouts making it drinkable but best shared.  Definitely a sipper but one that doesn't limit to a single serving.  Enoy!

I have a little bit of Irish blood runny in my veins, so this label caught my eye and decided to give it a try.

I am not sure this is a true "Micro Beer".  After doing a little hunting around online, I was surprised to see that this was a Pabst product.  I get the impression that this an attempt by a big brewery to try and make a beer that has a micro beer look and feel.  Anyway....let's get to the beer.

Pours a dark, dark brown, almost black, but when held up to the light it has a ruby redness to it.  A nice one inch head that dissipates quickly, leaving a swirl of milky foam around the edges of the glass.  Spotty lacing.

The aroma is nice, but not very complex.  I am getting dark roasted malt and that is about it.

Taste is mostly roasted malts, with a hint of bitterness on the back end.  Maybe some hints of Carmel and coffee.

Mouth feel is nice, creamy with medium carbonation and a dry finish.

Overall a decent beer.  I was not expecting it to be as enjoyable as it was once I found out  it was brewed by Pabst.  It's an easy drinking beer that I actually would have again.

--- Scot, don't kick me off your site for putting a Pabst Beer on here!

Gotta catch up the beers being reviewed tonight.

Gotta make this quick

Arom  Carmel toasty notes

Look:  Carmel color, thin lace slight cling.

Taste:  Slight bitter and burnt end.  Good

Pours opaque with a half glass or more of deep tan foam that is thick and delicious looking.  Retention is ridiculous with the foam thickening up, forming pox marks on top.  Lacing is dry, thin and a lot of it.

Aroma is old fashioned coffee rinds up front.  Slight roast and a touch of bitter chocolate.

Taste has more of the same with coffee and bitter chocolate the center state.  Roasted flavors are light and add a touch of complexity.

Medium body with a lively carbonation while drying the palate but not thoroughly.

This is a nice beer but there seems to be some ruffled edges that made this difficult to drink.  I'd have it again but there are other coffee beers that would catch my attention first.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with an inch of tan, frothy foam.  Retention and lacing are both limited at best.

Aroma of caramel, toffee, nuttiness, and slight chocolate but not sweet chocolate.  No hops to find at all, straight maltiness.

Taste is caramel and toffee in the beginning.  The middle transitions to toffee and mild chocolate.  A lingering aftertaste of nut, bread, and muted, bland chocolate.

High-end of light body with mild carbonation.

Too much malt for me.  The body doesn't hold up to all the malt.  Inspired by German-chocolate (from the bottle) but not well done.  Seems like there is too much going on for any one thing to stand out.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 9 (22%)
Taste: 10 (40%)
Look: 10 (10%)
Drinkability: 9 (28%)
Overall: 9.5

Pours cloudy with a small amount of tan foam that doesn't stick around for long.  No lacing to mention.

Aroma is of big, sweet malts.  Bread, toffee, and dark fruits with touches of light roast make the sniffer happy.

Taste is of more malt.  Of course.  Bread, caramel, toffee, and that slight roast.  Finishes sweet with an alcohol burn that shows up late but doesn't let go but the alcohol isn't part of the flavor, just a burn.

Big, heavy body with with some sticky lips left behind.  Carbonation is medium.

The alcohol is well masked which could cause you issues.  Well put together and one to put on  your list.  Enjoy!

 Hazy straw with a semi-thick pur white foam head.

 Lemon, grassy, with a malt backbone.

 A  good blend of malt sweet and pilsner level bitterness. For an Imperial it's various elements are held in check. The mouthfeel is about right for this kind of beer. The lemon notes compliment and don't over-ride. And the alcohol would be tough to peg at it's 7.0 abv.

 Thinking in terms this being a pilsner, it's a really, really great beer. And, it's the first Imperial Pilser I've every had, that I actually like. IF America macro had made their brews this well, they'd all be powerhouses. If I had a knock it would be that the price seems a tad steep. But it definately is immensly drinkable.

 Pale gold, ever so slight haze with white medium foam.

 Very unique flavors, oak and citrus. It's a tripel, so I'm thinking there's some yeasty notes in the background. More than any beer I've had lately, the aroma is a tease that spurs my curiousity to find out what it tastes like.

 Muted sweetness, citrus, spice, and a touch of breadiness. A tad dry but not bitter at all. Medium mouthfeel, aligns well with big carbonation. Really drinkable for the style.

 The strength of this brew to me, is how difficult it is to fiqure out what are all the taste elements. Don't get me wrong, it's a well made beer. The Citra hops aged in oak barrells give this brew a totally unique twist. I've

Pours a light golden color with a thin white head that settles out quickly leaving a ring of foam wrapped around the edges of the glass.

The aroma is great.  Farm house aromas blend with a light sweetness, oak, vanilla, and white grape and some light wheat with a light Belgium spice.

The taste just as enjoyable as the aroma.  Belgium yeast and spices blend with a spice chile pepper flavor that has a pretty impressive bite.  Some sweetness like honey hides behind the hot chile peppers.  Some oak is noticeable near the finish with the heat off the peppers growing stronger in the after taste.

Light to medium body with a high level of zesty carbonation.

Overall, a really unique beer.  I enjoy chile peppers, so I may like this one more than others, but I like the creative spin on this beer.  The one down side is that you get all the heat from the peppers, but not much of the pepper flavor is noticeable.  This beer gets hot, as the spicy pepper builds sip after sip.  Worth a try, but might not be for everyone.

Pours a cloudy deep amber brown color with a huge frothy creamy yellow head. Good retention on the head.

The aroma is dark fruits, prunes, rasins, oak, apple wood, and brown sugar as well as some heat from the higher ABV.

The taste is big on the dark fruits.  Prunes and raisins come on strong with a sweet brown sugar and toffee.  A hint of woody flavors appear near the end with some big heat coming off this beer in the finish.

Medium body with a light to medium level off carbonation.  A creamy soft smoothness on the palate.

Overall, a really nice beer. A perfect fall or winter beer with rich flavors that work nicely with the higher ABV.  Enjoyable, but gets kind of boring after getting half way done with bottle.  A slow sipper that is worth a try.  Try one!

 Deep brown, but clear. Beige, and soft foam.

 Nice toasted malt, which is very well matched with a low citrus notes. Best aroma of any black beer I've ever had. Very well done.

 Crisp and fresh, light hop citrus (low grapefruit). Some nut-like notes also present, with slight spiciness. Could be sweet, but balanced by a nice hop profile. Solid medium mouthfeel.

 I don't know why there was initial controversy about this style. This brew proves the blend of hops and dark malts can be melted into a great new style. Lots of  flavors and a level of complexity that sort of a surprise to me. FW does not make a average beer.



Pours black with one inch frothy dark tan head. The head dissipates quickly leaving a thin layer of highly carbonated foam resting on top.

The aroma is a huge blast of peppermint with a dark chocolate aroma behind it.

The taste is peppermint with dark coco flavor blending in and following into the finish.  The after taste is really funky, a little bit musky with a punch of peppermint.

Medium body with high carbonation.

Overall, a really bizarre beer.  Strange flavors that are bold and hard to enjoy. Not my cup of tea.

What to say?
I typically keep to the facts, color flavor notes, a pretty dull review.
I'm Finnish, I'm a home brewer, I've never had a Sahti, but I've made several by recipe.  And I've never had a commercial version and I was looking forward to this because I wanted to compare my Sahti's to a commercial version.  Specifically whatever issues the snob/craft beer fan might have with Sam Adams, Sam Adams consistently produces a "to style" beer.  With that in mind, I was even more excited to try this beer because it would be "to style".

So I think Sam Adams produced a beer that's 'to style'.  What I've noticed with my own versions is, most people don't like it.  What you've got is a cave man beer.  Sahti  is one of the oldest styles and what is it?  It's a bunch of cold lonely Finnish farmers looking around their yard and wondering, "How can I get drunk?"
So they grab some juniper branches, they grab some rye (both can grow in the tundra), they grab some cheap grain and some baker's yeast.  They make alcohol with what they have and they get drunk to forget that they are in Finland.  So  why is this style not known throughout the world?  Because it's not a great style.  It's what else am I going to do in Finland.  I love my people, and if I was stuck there I'd drink this to, but I don't live there so I don't drink this often.  Just at Finn parties, or camping.

Pours clear with a quarter-inch of light tan foam.  Retention is not lacing while lacing dots the glass here and there.

Aroma is caramel and toffee with nice plum character.  There is a playful alcohol and sweetness.  The sweetness seems to grow a bit.

Taste brings the caramel, toffee, and plum.  The end brings a huge hit of booze with brown sugar sweetness.  The alcohol burns on the way down.  There is a strange flavor towards the end that is "off".

Big body that makes the lips a little sticky from the sweets at two years old.  Carbonation is medium, which is a bit surprising.

I wonder if more age here would help the alcohol as it creates the sensation of one-dimensional.  Not a bad beer, just possibly too hard to get based on production numbers.  Enjoy!

Pours almost opaque, light seeps through the edges.  An inch of tan foam doesn't last long, quickly becoming only a ring.  Sporadic, spotty lacing.

Aroma of dark fruits and sweet, vanilla and molasses.  Bourbon continues the onslaught that is just pleasure for the nose.

Taste is sweet throughout along with the accompanying dark fruit(s).  The middle brings burnt molasses with alcohol beginning.  Vanilla and bourbon join quickly late middle and carry through to the finish.  A residual vanilla sweetness finishes too.

Big body on top of solid amount of carbonation.  The sweetness and vanilla create a slight oiliness.

Fresh this is fantastic but a bit hot.  Five, ten or more years will smooth this out, drop some sweetness, making this an all world beer.  Glad to have another for the cellar with the group splitting up costs.   This is a beer you need to share with friends.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 10 (22%)
Taste: 9 (40%)
Look: 10 (10%)
Drinkability: 9 (28%)
Overall: 9.3

Pours clear, splitting the tulip glass into half liquid and half white foam initially.  Retention is quite good.  Slightly effervescent.   Lacing is wet yet seems sticky but wispy.

Aroma has some classic saison: pepper with that slight fruit from the yeast.  Oak is there but more dank, damp qualities; almost rustic.  Slight green apple, white wine characteristics add late complexity.

Taste is a bit different than I expected based on the nose while some of the same qualities are joined by others.  More funk, bordering on the side of tartness, lingering.  Typical oak is more noticeable.  A wet, old blanket but in a good way.

Light body with a nice spritz of carbonation.  Could be a bit drier.

If Brett is used (would surprised if it wasn't) it actually is well balanced with the typical saison side of thing both come out in the finished beer, adding great complexity.  For such a small saison there is a lot going on.  The overall profile seems to fit the name nicely.  Enjoy!

Pours a deep amber brown color with a thin off white head.  The head settles out quickly, leaving a thin swirl of foam resting on top.  Some spotty watery lacing.

The aroma has a grainy toasted type malt present with a caramel sweetness.  A light citrus is noticeable with a hint of pine.

The taste is similar to the aroma with a sweet camel grain type malt up front and works into a nice bold citrus hop.  The finish has a nice citrus bite with a hint of lemon or grapefruit bitterness.

Light to medium body with a light to medium carbonation.  Watery mouth feel with a touch of dryness on the palate.

Overall, a very drinkable enjoyable IPA.  Well balanced flavors that keep you coming back for another sip.  The malts and the citrus hops seem to work together really nicely.  A very easy drinking beer that I would have again.

Pours clear with a white, thick foam.  Retention is well above average with a swelling thickness.  Lacing is thick but goes back to level except for the last eighth of an inch.

Aroma is Belgian yeast forwar a bit of spice.  Pepper, floral, and a touch of sweet highlight the beer.

Taste has some sweetness that is complimented by clove and pepper.  Floral notes are there too, throughout.  Citrus hops are in the finish.

Light end of medium body with light carbonation, finishing dry.

Easy to drink, quenches the thirst.  The combination of styles that are blended to perfection: each show through but is complementary to the other.  Enjoy!

 Very clear coppery amber. Fairly thick fluffy off-white foam, of average retention.

 Citrus and pine hops and some biscuity malt.

 A surprisingly soft touch, on the DIPA scale. Toffee semi-sweet, grapefruity from the hops, probably floral notes, and the hop bit is a bit mellow. Not very thick, and finishes dry. Carbonation in check.

 Overall, a very socially exceptable DIPA. The citrus and pine are out front, but not offensive. It's a very clean and fresh taste, while still experiencing this big style. Not out to bruise your buds, so it makes a great intro or mid-level take on this kind of brew. Plus, the flavor profile is attractive and well balanced. Bravo to a great small brewer.

From a one-year old bottle.

Pours clear with an off-white, inch high foam.  Retention is about average with nary any foam left behind.

Aroma is really mostly nutty malts.  Dark fruits also come in after a bit of work.   Maybe a hint of toasted malt too.  But mainly centered around the nutty malts.

Taste follows with nutty and slight toasted malt.  Dark fruit, mostly prune/raisin is strong and inviting.  Hints of alcohol.  Sweet.

Medium/heavy body with minimal carbonation: just enough to tantalize the mouth and lips.  Dries a bit while making the lips tacky.

A nice offering, especially for my first beer from Nimbus.  I thought the nose was a bit mild while the fruits in mid sip centered the beer around themselves unnecessarily.   Intriguing enough that I would like to try their other offerings.  Enjoy!

Pours a black color with a  hint of ruby red to it.  Quarter inch tan head that dissipates quickly leaving a thin milky swirl of tan foam floating on top.

Aroma is mild but I am getting some dark coco and roasted malts with an underlying sweetness.

Taste is big in rich roasted malts up front that work into a coffee flavor on the backend with a bitter finish.  Enjoyable flavors that tend to blend together and give this beer a smoothness.

Surprisingly light body for a dark beer like this.  Medium carbonation.

Overall a tasty brew.  A little weak in the aroma, but the big flavors quickly make up for it.  One of my favorite beers from Sprecher.  Try one!

Aggressive pour yields a clear liquid with a half-glass of white, frothy foam on top.  Retention is average but lacing is thick and sticky.

Aroma is citrus, tropical, and grassy hops.  A nutty and sweet malt backbone underlies.  Maybe a bit of resinous hops (a bit past prime?).

Taste emphasizes the hops and bitterness that lands well into the finish.  Sweet at first that gives way to a ravenous round of grapefruit hops that places its seal on the beer.  Bitterness is there but doesn't over power - just be ready for it.

Medium body but maybe lighter.  Medium carbonation with the palate drying.

High alcohol is hidden well being undetectable by me.  Grapefruit bite is big and probably takes it out of the session range but if you like hops I am sure this won't be a hindrance.  A solid offering.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with about an inch of pure white foam.  Retention is lightening quick.  Sheeting foam recedes to leave sporadic globs on the side of the glass.

Orange dominates the aroma with other tropical fruits.  Caramel tries to balance but not an overall sweet scent.

Taste has a pale malt backbone that is beaten into submission by huge amounts of hops.  Citrus, tropical, pine, and all over the place.  The finish is bitter with some lingering.

Medium carbonation and medium body.  Dries the palate quite a bit.

An interesting combination of hops that are bold to the extreme.  The bitterness is tough to get past in terms of drinkability.  Enjoy!

Orange gold.

Enticing big malt backone with full grapefruit notes, then herbs. Definately inviting.

Huge hopped up flavor of grapefruit and pine. Almost tingly mouthfeel from all the hops. Well balanced, not much malt sweetness. And definately not too heavy in viscocity. And no hop bite.

Not like any other big hopped IPA. Smooth and subtle for a hugely hop brew. You've got to like grapefruit. But shows there's variation in the IPA arena.

 Pure gold with slight haze. Soft off-white foam.

 Note are faint, some bread and a touch of lemon citrus, and then way in the background a very distant belgian spice....maybe.

 Very drinkable. It's dry and not sweet, and not bitter. In the after-taste there's faint flavors blended together. Maybe low grapefruit, a little breadiness. It's got a nice full mouthfeel.

 Nothing out of balance in any way. It's smooth and interesting in a low key way. It's billed as a summer seasonal, which is exactly what it is. It's got rye and honey, which is probably what makes it interesting, but it's hard to say exactly why.

Pours cloudy with an inch of frothy, white foam.  Retention is a bit below average with lacing that begins as the foam recedes.  Lacing is thick and sheeting.

Aroma is something I have had sensed before, never knew it was Galaxy hops.  Citrus, orange, mango, tropical, fruity, herbal, and a touch of pine all wrapped into one.

Taste is bitter from the beginning.  There is a slight sweetness in the middle that tries to balance but the hops just squashes it.  The finish caries a huge bitter pine, grapefruit, etc with some sweetness.

Medium body with the same carbonation.  Hop resin is evident that dries.

Drinkable for the amount of hops but I feel there is an unbalance to the beer.  I like the Galaxy hops but I don't know if I would use them as the center of a beer.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with an enormous off-white, medium-sized bubbled foam (gives me the willies wondering if it is contaminated as this isn't normal for the style).  Retention is really good while there is surprisingly little to no lacing.

Aroma is sweet, caramel, and toffee.  Bread and butter scotch come to mind too.  Roasted malt brings up the rare but is muted like most of it but the first three.

Taste isn't all that wonderful.  Butter scotch and more to the point butter flavors overwhelmed me making my palate slippery for anything else to come by.

Medium body with a fair amount of carbonation.

There are some makings of a beer behind it but not enough to make it past my fourth sip: drain.  I wanted to like this beer but it didn't take me in.  Enjoy!

From a sixteen month old bottle.

Pours opaque but clear where the light penetrates.  Foam is several inches of thick, rich, tan lather.  Retention is average or better with almost no lacing.

Aroma is a combination of big malt roasted and chocolate mostly.  Coffee and caramel add complexity while there almost seems to be a layer of creaminess.

Taste is a bit sweet up front.  The middle brings chocolate, sweet transitioning to a big malt finish: roasted and coffee.  The roast and coffee sticks in the mouth like old fashioned black coffee.

Medium mouth with an above average carbonation for the style that doesn't hurt.  Definitely dries the palate.

Lots to take in for this beer.  The malts are big, complex, but balanced with each having a bit of time in the spotlight.  I wonder how joyful a fresh pint of this one might be?  Nicely done.  Enjoy!

 Very deep red amber color, looked clear but not thin. Normal foam head, is a little thicker and long lasting then straight average.

  Three prominent notes to me were caramel malt, spiciness, and cherries. The aroma is unique and inviting, but hints of potential heavy handedness to come?

 My initial thought was overpowering. But fairly quick subsequent tastes revealed a much more balance beer than I first preceived. It's a big brew, don't get me wrong. But, the spiciness is all from yeast and hops so it's much better at melding into the other elements of the beer. While the malt is sweet, it's toffee like and mixed with the serious level of alcohol almost seems liqueur like.  And the viscosity is at the perfect level, not overboard and really enriches the dark fruit flavors. Finally, I like the carbonation level, it's just enough from this sometimes flater than I like... big alcohol style.

 Really good beer for a winter / holiday brew. I hate spice bombs, but here it comes from the right place/ingredients. Understand, it's more of an after dinner or later in the evening brew, but it will definitely enhance you day.

A gentle pour reveals  a deep golden color with a thin white head.  Good retention on the head. Lots of thick lacing the sheets down the sides of the glass.

The aroma is mostly bready malts with a late sweetness and hints of dark fruits.

The taste is very similar to the aroma with bready sweet malts and a nice earthy hop coming in near the finish.  The sweetness lingers in the finish.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  A sweetness on the lips and some dryness in the finish.

Overall, another very nice beer from Firestone.  Fairly simple in micro-brew standards, but a super solid beer.  Great flavors that are fresh and well balanced. An easy drinking beer that  showcases how good a "simple" beer can be!  I will be buying this one again!

Pours a clear amber brown color with a thin khaki colored head.  Head dissolves quickly, leaving a thin swirl of foam resting on top.  Some spotty watery lacing.

The aroma is on the milder side for me, but pleasant.  Smoke and sweet toffee malts are the aromas that I can detect with a slight earthiness.

The taste is very similar to the aroma.  Lots of sweet malt with a smoky toffee flavor that builds to a finish with dark roasted malts and coffee.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Creamy and smooth with a touch of carbonated pickle on the finish.

An enjoyable beer that is very drinkable and has a nice mix of the dark winter flavors. Try one!

Vintage 2011 - bottled on 10/31/11
abv: 6.2%

Pours a slightly cloudy amber brown color with a one inch cream white head.  Head settles out after a few minutes leaving a thin layer of creamy tightly formed bubbles floating on top. Lacing sheets down the sides of the glass.

The aroma is lightly toasted malt, bread, brown sugar and a hint of spice and a dark fruit making an appearance as well.

The taste is similar to the aroma with lightly toasted malts, bread, caramel, and brown sugar with a light spice.  I am also getting a bit of dark fruit, maybe raisin on the finish.  The spice is light and is a nice change as too many of the winter beers over do it with the spices.

Medium body with light to medium carbonation.  Creamy smooth mouth feel.

Overall I would say that this a solid brown ale that fits the winter season well.  It is well balanced with nice winter flavors and a mouth feel that is buttery smooth and easy to drink.  I have two bottles that I am going to cellar for a few years as the label says that it will age in the bottle up to 5 year.  I'll let you know in a few years how it ages, but for now it tastes great!

Wrote from notes taken while at Jak's tap.

Served in a tulip glass the beer was opaque with about an inch of frothy, thick foam.  Retention was about average with lacing that was thick, coating, and sticky.

Aroma is sweet, roasted malt, citrus hops that mostly come across as orange.  Light on the sniffer but definitely pleasant.

Taste is slight sweet and roasted malt that give way in the middle to citrus orange hops that stays to the finish with a pleasant bitterness.

Medium body with light carbonation that at times had a creamy feel.

This is a really nice offering in the style.  The high ABV doesn't come through in the drink at all.  Clean and refreshing with just a hint of roasted malt.  Enjoy!

Pours cloudy with some floaties.  I think I got some of sediment from the bottle in the glass - there was a ton of this in the bottle.  Foam was a rich brown but had minimal, at best, retention.  Lacing, are you kidding.

Aroma lets you know that it is a stout.  Roasted malt, some chocolate and even a nugget of coffee.  I expected some fudge, but no.

Taste is pretty straight forward.  Roasted malt and chocolate dominate.  The chocolate does add a sense of bitterness.  Coffee comes late and lingers in the back of the mouth.

Body is thin as is the carbonation.  I guess the carbonation might be a bit more, but not much.

I was expecting some big things from this beer.  I wanted some fudge, especially from Mackinac, as it is some awesome goodness on that island.  The beer isn't horrible, it is just awfully thin for a stout.  The aroma and flavor you could say are there, the body is a let down.  One was enough.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 6 (22%)
Taste: 7 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 9 (28%)
Overall: 7.5

Short Rating
Arom 10 (22%)
Taste: 10 (40%)
Look: 10 (10%)
Drinkability: 9 (28%)
Overall: 9.7

Pours a nice clear straw golden color with a one inch head.  Head dissipates quickly leaving a thin layer of creamy head floating on top.  Nice sticky lacing.

Aroma is mild but pleasant.  Sweet honey, barley, malt, and mellow lemon give this beer a very clean aroma.

Taste is very refreshing and clean.  I am getting a nice mellow lemon with well balanced malts up front.  This works into a sweet honey with a bit of a grassy flavor on the back end.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Dry on the palate.

Overall, this is a nice clean refreshing beer.  A nice balance in the flavors and aroma and goes down easy.  Fits the spring weather perfectly!

 Crystal clear, rich golden ale. Small, soft white bubbles of average retention.

 Muted pineapple, orange, and a soft sweet. Not aggressive, more refined aroma. Some breadiness kinda of finishes it off.

 Not a fruit forward at all. More like honey and spice, with low tropical flavors in the background. The sweet and bitter offset but are pronounced together. No lingering aftertaste. Alcohol is swirled in with all the other elements.

 For a brewer that known for it's slash and burn style DIPA, this one is kinda of sophisticated  brew. Reminds me more of Bells Oracle than a West Coast style. No doubt that tropical notes are present, but there's a complete different thing going on. I really like this brew.

Pours cloudy, purposely, with three-quarter inch of slightly off-white foam.  The head doesn't last but leaves residue sporadically along the glass through consumption.

Aroma isn't as large as I expected.  Led by a caramel, toasty malt profile.  Spice and fruity hops are inside as well.

Taste, similar to the aroma, doesn't really bring it.  I don't get the maple at all.  I can tell that the aging on wood has helped smooth out the bitterness as it is minimal.  Refreshing but not ground breaking.

Body is firm with a thick, almost creaminess.  Carbonation is medium.  Dries the palate.

Nothing wrong with this beer, just not as great as some beers that Cigar City puts out.  This makes me wonder if the price tag is warranted.  I would have it again but the price scares me a bit.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with an ample light tan foam.  Head remains while frothing briefly as it recedes.  Lacing is thick, sticky, and a lot of it.  No doubt a beer was here.

Aroma is citrus and toffee up front.  Other malts create a large backbone.  Nutty.  Roast.  Pine.

Taste is malt forward with citrus and pine in the finish.  Pleasant bitterness that lingers but clean.  Nutty, toffee, caramel, and a touch of roast create a nice malt profile.

Medium body with about the same carbonation.

A really nice beer.  The malt combination is complex but might be a bit bitter in the finish.  Enjoy!

 Slight haze to the pale gold. And a few floaters. Thick off-white big bubble foam of medium retention.

 Serious wet hop aroma, due in no small part to getting the first of the brew to hit stores in the Chicago area (just released and Munster's close by). Pine first, then mix of grapefruit and lemon. As the beer sits in the glass a few minutes a caramel malt scent emerges along with some unidentifed fruit.

 Is this a high-end IPA, or low-end DIPA? Kidding! It doesn't matter, the taste is fantastic. At the same time it's a big citrus fruit, then a very unique biscuity malt, and then the hop snap sneaks up.
Not thick, but not thin...I know that sounds like a cop-out but it's well carbonated which makes the full load of ingredants seem thiner than it really is. At 7% abv has the juice, but not yet fuel.

 I could drink this shit ball day long. I know I prejudiced towards this brewer and I can't be objective towards their best brews. And, I scored a very fresh bottle of a wet hopped harvest ale. But, this brew is big and bold, while remaining extremely well balanced. It's stands up to the best of the West Coast. And all this from an industrial park on the edge of Chicago. These dudes rock and march to their own tune (metal). It's freshly brewed, do whatever you need to do, get some NOW.

Pours slight haze with a half glass of pure white, tightly packed foam.  Retention is great with the top of the foam becoming lumpy meringue.  Lacing sheets the sides but most quickly falls back to level.

Aroma is strong cucumber.  Behind the up-front cucumber is a bit of pale malt and light spice.

Taste is full of cucumber.  Tons.  There is a touch of spice but not much of base saison remains.  There is a residual cucumber, almost bitter, typical of the gourd, just isn't for me.

Medium body with heaps of carbonation while dries the palate thoroughly.

This beer is all about the cucumber.  No holds barred.  I wonder how many cukes gave their lives to produce such a strong profile?  Maybe over done as the base beer doesn't come through - this could have been on top of most any light beer, having the same affect.  Refreshing.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 9 (22%)
Taste: 10 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 10 (28%)
Overall: 9.7

Pours a dark ruby black with a huge two inch tan head.  Retention is high, leaving a nice thick foamy lacing.

Aroma is awesome. I am getting chocolate, dark fruits, and dark roasted malt.

Taste is amazing! I get a nice roasted malt that works into dry bitter chocolate.  I am getting a hint of molasses on the backend.  A very warming beer.  Reminds me of the warm burn after a shot of whisky, maybe not that strong, but similar.

Mouth feel is smooth and creamy with a dryness on the palate.  Big body with medium carbonation.


Pours opaque with a sixteenth of a chocolate, mocha colored foam.  It is easy to surmise that the retention was not there.  Lacing was sheeting and thick but did seek it's level.

Aroma is dark fruits and chocolate foremost. Licorice and roasted malts  are there to making up quite a thick and delicious nose.

Taste is a little different than expected.  Dark fruits and chocolate are there but roasted malt, burnt flavors, and very bitter from chocolate come from the middle, lasting through to the end. The finish brings these flavors on strongly and maybe inappropriately so.

Thick, rich body with minimal to no carbonation. Creamy and coating in the mouth.

A very good and drinkable beer for such a high ABV. The drawback comes from the amount of burnt and bitterness from the various malts. Definitely something I could have occasionally as I can't get past the aforementioned bitterness and burnt flavors. Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 9 (22%)
Taste: 10 (40%)
Look: 7 (10%)
Drinkability: 9 (28%)
Overall: 9.2

Bottled August, 17, 2011.  198 cases.

Pours a dark color, but doesn't seem to be black.  Opaque due to depth of color.  A half inch of tan foam covers but doesn't have much staying power.  Lacing is interesting: sticky and web-like.

Aroma of tart cherries, oak character, and acidic dark fruits.    Wine notes underlay the rest, creating a sweet complexity.

Taste has acidity up front, building throughout until it culminates, blending with oak, creating a great finish.  Cherry tartness highlights as well.  Tartness, acidity, and dark fruits linger on the back of the tongue.

Medium body, maybe bigger as it coats the front of the mouth (creamy).  Carbonation is stiff, adding to the feel.

The first sip is tough as the acidity, oak, and dark fruits shock the taste buds.  Afterwards, nothing but a nice wild beer.  Enjoy!

Poured from bottle number 604/1125, batch 8/11.

Pours cloudy as the beer quickly rose out of the bottle.  Huge amount of white, meringue foam top the beer.  Floaties.  Retention is long lasting.  Lacing is minimal as the big bubbles slip back, eventually to liquid level.

Aroma brings the stereotypical barnyard funk.  More musty for me than anything.  Lemon zest but slightly muted by the must.  A touch of sweetness exists.

Taste is similar to the aroma.  Starts out lemony up front.  The middle transitions to brett.  Musty.  The finish brings a spice bite that lingers rather than bitter.  Spice could be pepper and/or coriander.  Tartness in the finish.

Light end of medium body while the carbonation is high.

A really good beer, just nothing making it great.  Very drinkable and easy on the palate.  There isn't a breath of complexity that I was expecting.  Enjoy!

 Dark, not sure if it is deep brown or just black. Soft small bubbly foam that's dark kahki in color.

 Dark fruits followed by brown sugar and vanilla. After repeated investigative sniffs, I can pull out some bourbon. Some chocolate and maybe raisins, the flv notes go deep.

 Sweet molasses is tempered by a quick dryness. A little of the booziness from the bourbon comes out. Mostly vanilla and sugar, but not overly sweet, when you consider the style.

 I really like the taste, and it's different enough from other Imperial Stouts. It's like a bourbon infused dessert. Mostly I like the flavor and I think using a high end bourbon like Buffalo Trace helps.

Bottle exploded upon opening the cork.  Shot out so fast that it took me a minute or two to find the cork.

Pours cloudy, floaties with a fine effervescents. Foam is huge, off white.  Retention is quite good with the foam almost becoming meringue in nature.  Lacing is sporadic and only mildly sticky.

Aroma is dominated by tart fruits with an ever so light musk.

Taste is once again fruit forward but I think berries are easy to make out.  Green grapes with tart are there too.  Warms a bit on the way down.

Medium body with a lot of carbonation.

Put off a bit by the exploding bottle and the alcohol makes this hard to really throw back.  I think it could benefit from some age if the cork doesn't blow its stack first.  Enjoy!

Dark Brown, barely translucent, ruby brown barely shines through.
Thin head, decent cling to glass.  Tight light carbonation bubbles.
Aroma, up front alchohol.  Dark fruits, other complimentary fruits, but NOT citrusy fruits.  Plum?  Hard to identify which fruits, but definetly complicated and throughout.
Flavor.  Some kind of dark sugar is hiding the alchohol well.  Mollassas or brown sugar?  Fruits again are complicated and through middle of taste.  Alchohol is in finish giving it a slight lingering bite.
Light carbonation.  Forwardly light, but alchohol pulls the finish towards a medium body.

The bottle says brown ale, but I'm told it's a Old Ale.  I have to say I was confused by brown ale description.  It's very complicated, very fruity, worth sipping slowly.  As an Old Ale, yes.  As a brown ale, 'not to style'?

The fruity complexity allows this beer to cellar well and the alchohol supports this idea.  This beer is a great contender for ageing and would improve it's stats a lot.  I would buy this beer to age it and I think a person that bought and opened a young version would be 'disappointed' compared to an aged version.

It's sort of a great beer to bring up in a discussion of 'to cellar or not to cellar'?  I think off the rack, it's a one time beer and 'sort of good' but only as a one time thing.  As an aged beer, I think this be could be 'a contender'.  People would line up for an aged version.

Poured clear around the edges as the rest was opaque.  Foam was deep tan, frothy, and about two inches thick.  Retention is okay but the foam becomes thick and richer as it dissipates.

Aroma is of roasted malt, definitely the spotlight.  Toffee and coffee are in there but the roasted malt just keeps bringing me back for another quaff of the goodness.

Taste is really good.  Roasted, toffee, coffee, and chocolate all play their roll to varying degrees.  Enough hops to balance all the sugars but to really not be noticed.  Well rounded and flavor is bountiful.

Medium body with light carbonation, maybe a bit more.  The mouth can feel creamy at times, adding a nice level of added complexity.

Porters are up there in terms of styles I like and this beer is up there in terms of one of the best I have had.  Sometimes one is not enough.  Do yourself a favor and get this beer.  Enjoy!

A vigorous pour yields a cloudy liquid with a huge off-white, frothy foam.  Retention is quite good and becomes meringue as it recedes.  Surprisingly little lacing.

Aroma is on the hoppy side with citrus hops dominating - clean though, not grapefruit, maybe pleasant orange.  Everything else is muted and difficult for me to make out.  Some caramel is definite.

Taste has a similar hop profile with bitterness building through to the end.  Lasting bitterness is there but minor and just enough to let you know you are drinking an ipa.  Malt is subdued as is the overall characteristics of the beer.

Light end of medium body with light carbonation.  Feels a touch creamy at times.

Not an over the top ipa just an easy drinking ipa.  The aroma and taste were both a little underwhelming.  I like my ipas big.  Also, my beer did have a bit of metalic flavor to it that lasted.  Could it have been my dish soap?  Enjoy!

Pours clear with a single inch of white foam.  Retention is a little quick before settling in with an eighth inch of foam.  Lacing

Aroma is hop driven.   Citrus grapefruit and tropical fruits lead the charge.  Malts mingle in the back end.

Taste is bitter from the start with a resinous, dank hop flavor there besides.  Grapefruit throws all other hop flavors to the side but there are some other minor citrus flavors.  Burps bring up more grapefruit.  Piney hops is in the finish and balances the big citrus.

Medium body with a slightly less than medium carbonation that seems to allow hop oils coat the mouth for feel instead.

This is a stellar beer in my book.  In spite of the big hops it is drinkable and refreshing.  Since it is seasonal I would imagine this doesn't last long on the west coast.  Wonderful.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with a two inch, tan, thick foam.  Retention is above average becoming thicker as it recedes.  Lacing, at times, was thick and sticky.

Aroma is of clove and pepper spice, maybe even some banana?  Definite traces of Belgian yeast.  Some dark fruits come in the middle an add complexity.  Prunes and raisins.  Some boozy alcohol burn too.  Cherry?

At least a medium body with a quite a bit of tingly carbonation to help round out the beer.

The unpluggs strike again.  Another good beer coming out of one of my favorite breweries.  Fairly drinkable for a high alcohol beer.  Should I have picked up more than eight?  Enjoy!

Pours clear with a huge amount of white, fluffy foam.  Retention is quite good with lacing beginning before the glass even tip sticky and web like.

Aroma of sweet caramel and toasted malt with honey fill the nose quickly.  The hop profile is fruity and somewhat tropical: lemon, orange, etc.  Some pine resin is there too.

Taste is caramel malt all the way through, including honey, that leaves a sweetness, almost cloying in the finish, thick, and syrupy.  Toasted malt is there too while the fruity nose is lost.  Not much of a bitter aftertaste, maybe none.

This is a medium mouth feel with light carbonation.  There is a syrupy feel there too.

This beer has some good qualities.  Easy to drink but I can't say refreshing as the sweetness is over done as stays with me.  I would have it again, but there are a ton of west coast IPAs that would quench my thirst before I ever thought of having one of these.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with a nice tan foam that fills half a pint glass with a vigorous pour.  Retention is quite nice with really no lacing at all.

Aroma is toasted and caramel malt.  No real hops to speak of.  The sweetness of the beer is rather large on the nose almost giving me the sense of honey in the beer.

Taste doesn't have much of a hop presence either but the malt bill is once again sweet.  There is a nice toasted flavor but that is overwhelmed by the big hit of sweetness that lasts throughout.  I brings on thoughts, only briefly, of some bad Marzen beers that are overly sweet.

Maybe a middle of the road body with low carbonation.  The sweetness gives the sense of syrup at times making the beer itself seem bigger too.

Not that hard to drink in terms of alcohol but the sweetness just is a turnoff.  Too much and too sloppy.  I would drink this beer again if someone gave it to me but I would never seek it out again.  Enjoy!

Poured opaque with a nice looking brown, two finger foam.  Retention was outstanding leaving a nice solid covering over my beer.  As it receded it also became creamy and thick to the eye.  Lacing was thick but not lasting.

Aroma is solid for a porter: roasted, chocolate with a side of smoke and even coffee.  Toffee and bread malt add to the complexity.  Even a touch of chili character eventually comes through too.

Taste is just a complex and big as the aroma.  The foam, as it touches your lips, adds a nice creaminess up front.  Sweet caramel and toffee notes meet the tongue first followed by a wave of bread and smoke.  The smoke character I would describe as peat and about as perfect a compliment to the beer as can ever be expected.   A bit of spice and bitterness into the end and finish.  The finish rounds out with some hea I think from both the alcohol and chilis.  It warms, even in the stomach.

This is quite a big beer with a mild carbonation that is accented by the creaminess of the foam.

This is top notch.  I don't care for smokey beers but this one did it perfectly, as not to be an annoyance.  Big, chewy, and outstanding.  I didn't think this was going to win me over so I only bought one.  Yeah, one.  Egghead.  Enjoy!

Pours clear but darker than expected compared to most IPAs.  A single inch of tan, thick foam fills the glass to the top.  Retention is about average with some sticky, sporadic lacing throughout.

Aroma is caramel and toffee malt sweetness on top of a bed of citrus and spice hops.  Malt seemed to be more forward than the hops.

Taste is sweet up front from the malts.  The middle seems to get a bit bready and a quick shot of spice hops that last through to the end.  Citrus hops combine to bring a bitter zing that last a while.  Sorachi definitely has a distinct style.

Medium on the mouth with a solid carbonation.

Definitely not my favorite rendition of the style.  I don't think that Sorachi is my type of hop.  The sweetness got to be a bit cloying by the end.  Enjoy!

Released on Friday, August 13th, 2010 only at the brewery and to a tune of 1,500 bottles.

Poured clear with a huge amount of tan, thick foam filled my glass with a vigorous pour.  Retention was quite good with very little, if any, lacing.

Aroma is only slight hint of tart on top of a nice dose of smooth cherries.  Oak is a definite, but a deep oak, maybe this is where the bourbon comes in plan but not as booze.  Toffee?

Taste is really sweet up front with tart coming in through the middle to the end to help balance.  Fruit is a big part of the beer.  Oak comes in the middle with a bit of funk that gives off a earthy presence.  Bourbon?  Eh, not really.

Medium body with a good amount of zing from the carbonation - has a good place for this beer.  No syrup like qualities in spite of the large amount of fruit.

Seems to be another one of those awesome New Glarus fruit beers.  How different is it from some of the beers coming out of NG lately (Cherry Stout, Enigma), not much, but still has a nice spot in their fruit beer array.  Enjoy!

Poured clear into my pint glass.  Huge frothy, white foam covered the beer.  Retention as lasting.  Lacing is sheeting but quick to fall back.

Aroma has some tart citric acid.  Subdued oak gives a nice level of complexity.  Vinegar and apples round out the profile.  Apples are more tart and green.

Taste almost made me pucker from the tartness level.  The oak comes through again in the middle and it is a really pleasant oakiness.  Green apple is main flavor, sweet is htere to balance the tart, while there is a bit of citric acid.

The body is light end of medium with plenty of prickly carbonation too.

Since I mainly stay with American craft beer, I had to look up an official definition of a Gueuze.  If you take the loose definition, then this is a Gueuze but I thought the usual was blended.  Not having any other Gueuzes in my past, I will have to say that I will grade this on the over all thoughts of this beer, since there is nothing to compare it to.

Long winded there.    having this makes me want to try some other gueuze beers to get an a better understanding of the style and how close this is to normal.  I really liked it and am glad I could score six of this one.  Enjoy!

Pours a cloudy amber color with a thin white head. Spotty lacing.

The aroma is sweet with citrus hops similar to grapefruit. A very nice aroma.

The taste is similar to the aroma with a sweet malt upfront working into a citrus hop with a grapefruit citrus bite.  The finish is slightly bitter and  creamy.

Medium body with medium body.  Creamy and smooth on the mouth feel.

Overall, a very nice IPA.  Creamy rich and smooth.  Very drinkable and enjoyable.

 Murky peach. Normal off-white foam head.

 Appealing sourness, tart fruitness, and a little funk/musk.

 Fresh fruitiness (tropical & guava) is upfront. Next is tartness and carbonation. Semi-medium mouthfeel. It tartness is perfect. The odd thing is I think I'm getting some banana/clove. Oh, and some pineapple, too.

 First Cigar City that I really liked. It has this complex, multi tropical fruit taste notes that a brew from a hot climate location should have. It's balanced for all that's going on. Finally I at least understand the legion of CC fans, and it's their beer that I look for in the future.

Pours black with a hint of ruby redness when held up to the light.  Very little head shows on the pour with a thin ring of tan foaming around the edges of the glass.  Some spotty watery lacing is present.

Aroma is big and bold, sweet and creamy.  Sweet malts, chocolate, and mild coffee are the aromas that I am getting as well as a sweetness that reminds me of fresh honey.  Very pleasant and inviting aromas.

Taste is right on the money! Sweet malts blend into a milk chocolate with a mild coffee and finishes with a sweet honey flavor.  A very rich creamy blend of flavors! A hint of bitterness shows on the finish as the beer warms in the glass.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Milky and creamy on the palate, but maintains a watery quality that makes this beer an easy drinker.

Overall a solid porter with rich inviting flavors.  Well balanced and very drinkable with a perfect mouthfeel.  This is a must try porter that is on my list of favorites!

Pours a dark ruby brown color with a thin off white head.  Very little retention of the head as it dissipated quickly leaving just a swirl of foam floating on top.  Some spotty lacing.

The aroma has a sweetness to it that is very pleasing.  It just has a "good beer" smell.  I am getting sweet malts with a milk chocolate and a hint of bourbon.


Medium body with light to medium carbonation.  A creamy smooth mouth feel.

Overall this is a very nice beer that I would highly recommend.  Very easy to drink with buttery smooth aromas and flavors.  This beer just kind of melts in your mouth.  A must try beer for your list!

Aroma-  Cascade and a sweet malt background.
Look- Hazy gold, with thin lace, slightest cling to glass.
Taste- Forward, but not over powering cascade with a clean bitterness- no bite in the end.
Drinkability- Love it.

So here's the subjective nature of beer.  Back before Ale bottled I would try to get to this place as often as I could because my friend lives near by and it was my only opportunity to drink this beer.  It was one of the first great hoppy beers I found and loved, and I still love it- because there are fond memories tied to it.  It might be another hoppy pale ale to others, but so many times are linked to drinking this at Ale or taking a growler back home.  I love this beer.

Pours a clear amber brown color with a half inch cream colored head.  Good retention on the head as it rests on top with tightly formed bubbles.  Lots of thick lacing covers the edges of the glass.

The aroma is a nice mix of citrus hops and caramel malts.  A nice clean refreshing aroma that is nicely balanced and inviting.

The taste is rich and complex.  Starts with a sweet caramel malt and quickly blends into a bold citrus hop with a dry dark fruit flavor showing itself just after the citrus hops kick in.  The finish is more citrus hop and a bit of floral.  The after taste is fairly dry with a light bitter citrus and floral hop blend that lingers on the palate.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  The mouthfeel is creamy and smooth and makes this a very drinkable beer.


Wife received as a gift for coaching basketball.

Pours clear with minimal carbonation.  A white, thick, and sticky finger of foam covers.  Lacing is dotted, sticky and heavy.  Retention is mild at best.

Aroma is definitely that stereotypical Nelson Sauvin hop: strawberry and kiwi.

Taste has light sweetness up front that carries gently throughout, helping to balance.  Lots of late hops with alcohol adding more to the bitterness than the hops.  Lots of late hops and whirl-pooling?

Not as dry as most DIPAs but not juicy either.  Solid mouth feel.  Hints of alcohol abound in the finish, lingering and adding some bitterness.

I don't remember some of the other Ninja beers having such a big alcohol hit as this one.  Takes a hit to the drinkability of the beer.  Nelson hops come through much stronger in the great aroma than the flavor.  Nice beer but not great.  Enjoy!

 Black shade of brown. Tan medium thick foam of moderate retention.

 Dark roasted malt without smokiness. Then some light notes of dark fruit, molasses, and chocolate.

 A full sweet bread taste upfront. It's creamy and fully carbonated so the prescence is big. A few notes of raisins and prunes. Then faint alcohol taste in the background.

 I keep forgetting this brew is in the lager family. It's doubley big and deep for a bock. It's like biting into a loaf of Hawaiian bread and then doing a shot of vodka. None of the FFFs signature big hop. OK, but I always expected big leaguer performance from the FFFs boys.

Poured opaque (although I wasn't in the greatest lighting) with a solid tan, inch thick foam from an aggressive pour.  Retention is good leaving behind some thick, sticky foam.

Aroma is definite wheat with some good, big malts to back it up.  Roasted, toffee, and even burnt molasses come through.  Dark fruits stimulate the nostril figs and prunes.

Taste is very sweet.  A little sweeter than expected.  Dark malt drowns out the wheat flavor but it still comes through along with roasted and burnt malts.  The molasses and caramel are probably the sweetness culprits.  No real hop bitterness but I think it could use a little more for balance.  Dark fruits are hidden but lend a nice layer to the beer.

A medium bodied beer with about the same carbonation.  The malts seem to give off a syrupy texture at times.  Sweetness fades to a dry mouth.

Appreciative of this interesting mixture of light and dark.  Overall I think they pulled it together quite well, although he sweetness does make it difficult  to have more than the one bomber by myself. :)  Enjoy!

Pours clear with minimal tan foam.  Retention is fleeting while the lacing is spotty yet sticky.

Aroma is more barrel forwar oak, vanilla, bourbon, and a bit of earth show through.  The vanilla is most forward.  Lots of sweet from caramel and toffee.  Very slight notes of alcohol and rye character.

Taste is the rye characteristics up front, then the middle comes up to meet and clash with the barrel.  Rye and sweet hits up against vanilla, oak, and bourbon.  Towards the end the barrel fades and another round of rye pleasantly finishes off with some vanilla cream.  Darn tasty.

Big in the mouth with no carbonation but has that sticky drying sense.

This rendition of Hi-Fi does take it up a notch to 11.  The bourbon is well balanced with rye and overall feel of the original beer.  Outstanding.  Enjoy!

Pours a nice rich amber brown minimal head.  What little head that is present tends to cling to the side of the glass but has minimal lacing.

The first sniff gives me a camel sweet smell with a hint of fruit.

Taste is a lot like the smell, lots of caramel, a hint of spice and fruit that gives it a sweetness.  The rye bread taste comes out in a nice balanced way.  Has a warming feel to it as you drink it.

Very nice beer.  Would drink it again.

Pours clear with almost no, tan foam on top of the liquid.  Retention is minimal as there was almost no foam to begin with, while lacing was thick but retreated back to its level.

Aroma is sweet toffee with earth and peat.  The peat is nice in that it isn't over powering.  Minor notes of vanilla and oak.

Taste is a repeat of the aroma.  Toffee is a key note with the peat showing up but once again seemingly perfect amount.   Notes of vanilla and oak are minor as well as any bourbon, which I really couldn't find.

Not as big of a body as you might expec medium with a mild carbonation but good for the beer.

Is this beer drinkable?  Usually I only have about 2 - 3 sips before commenting on the taste, I had 3/4 of this beer gone before I even got to writing about the taste.  Easy drinking is an understatement.  Darn tasty.  Enjoy!

A vigorous pour yields a slightly cloudy (chill haze) with about a half glass of white, meringue foam.  Retention is really nice while lacing begins without even tipping the glas spiderwebs abound.

Aroma is hop centric.  Floral and citrus with a twist of orange and sweetness for some balance.  Light.

Taste is hops up first with floral and citrus hitting the taste buds.  The middle brings on sweetness and a build up of bitterness to the end and into the finish that isn't overly harsh or over bearing for the beer.  Some spice does add to the finishing hops.

Body is medium with ample, well balanced carbonation.

Not your perfect IPA but damn fine.  I could have done without the spice bittering hops but I guess that would make it more like everyone else's, lol.  I definitely would have this again, especially when it is warmer.  Enjoy!

Pours black in color with a hint of ruby red showing around the edges of the glass when held up to the light.  The pour produces a thin khaki colored head that is tightly formed with great retention. Some spotty lacing.

The aroma is very nice! Chocolate, oats and coffee are rich and inviting.

The taste is just as nice as the aroma with some additional layers of complexity.  Starts with bitter chocolates and dark roasted malts that works into a solid oat flavor and finishes with burnt coffee.  A touch of vanilla sweetness is noticeable in the aftertaste along side a bitter roasted malt and coffee flavor.

Medium body with light to medium carbonation.  Creamy smooth mouthfeel with dryness in the finish and a sweetness on the lips.

Overall, a very impressive oatmeal stout with a very true to style flavor and mouthfeel.  Awesome flavors that are well balanced and very enjoyable with a very inviting aroma. I might be a bit biased, as this is one of my favorite styles of beer, but this one should be on your must try list.  Very drinkable and just plain good! Try one!

Pours clear with a huge, frothy, creamy foam.  Retention is great with thick, sticky, spider web lacing that starts in right away.

Aroma brings the hops with earth back end and some sweetness to balance.  Ever so light hit of Belgian yeast.

Taste is about the same.  Mango finish, just like the aroma, that is low in bitterness.  Clean finish for such a big beer.

Medium body with medium to light carbonation.  Slightly dry.

Very drinkable for the size.  Could drink it all day but there are plenty of yummy flavors on tap.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with minimal tan foam.  Retention is lightening quick while lacing is non-existent.

Aroma is light but full of dark fruit raisins, prunes, and even cherries on top of a nice sweetness from the malt.

Taste brings out a stronger cherry flavor along with those other dark fruits.  Toffee sweetness abounds while there is a bit of booze in the finish.

Medium body at least and more like heavy with no carbonation whatsoever.  Somewhat viscous.

This beer surprised me a bit with how smooth it went down, even with all the heat, some of it being worn like a badge.  This is a definite cold weather that should be sipped but amazingly can go down too easily.  Enjoy!

Bright lemonade look.  Meringue like thick white head, quickly falls to hair thin head.  Slightest cling to glass.

Arom  Dry wheat aroma falls into super lemon tartness.  Behind that, complicated pleasant 'funk'.

Taste:  Carbonated!  Like a soda pop!  Pleasant, lemony.  Tart.  No apparent alcohol, which is amazing considering it's 10.9!  Zoinks!  That is not apparent in either flavor or aroma.  Wow!
So drinkable!

Discussing this beer, I agree that it tastes like a Farmhouse rather than a Tripel.  Great Farmhouse.  As a tripel... ?
Therefore:  "Not to style"

Short Rating
Arom 9 (22%)
Taste: 9 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 9 (28%)
Overall: 9.0

Pours a clear dark golden color with very little head.  A thin swirl of foam floats on top after the pour.  Spotty watery lacing.

The aroma is very sweet with a caramel or toffee malt and floral hop.

The taste is very similar to the aroma.  Big sweet caramel malts and floral hops.   Some  mild bitterness in the finish. A citrus hop character comes in near the finish and adds a nice flavor to the mix.

Medium body with light to medium carbonation.  Creamy mouth feel with a slightly dry finish.

Overall this is a good beer with a nice complex flavor profile.  Lots of big malts on this beer that are sweet and creamy and blends nicely with the floral and citrus hops.  A solid enjoyable beer!  Try one!

Pours a ruby brown with a thin tan head.  Low retention as the head dissipates quickly leaving just a thin layer of foam floating on top.

Aroma is very mellow and a bit disappointing.  I am getting some aromas of sweet dark fruits, and a hint of spice.

Taste is much more appealing compared to the aroma. This beer starts out with a sweet dark fruit.  Might be raisin or plum and works into a light banana with a hint of spice.

Mouthfeel is light and creamy with medium to high carbonation.

Overall I am not crazy about this beer.  I am wondering if I have an old bottle here.  Aroma and taste seem a bit mellow, like something is missing.  It is not bad, I was just expecting a bit more punch on this one.

2011 bottle that my cousin keeps nagging me to drink.  Drank at cellar temperature.  So here goes.

Pours clear but dark with an inch of off-white, almost tan foam.  Retention is average at best.

Aroma is big on barley/malt.  Caramel and toffee seem to stand out but not too sweet.  Bourbon, oak, and vanilla are all there in the back as are touches of dark fruits.  Great smelling.

Taste is swee caramel, toffee, and even molasses.  Dark fruits come through stronger here as dose a strong sense of booze that warms all the way down into the stomach.  Oak, bourbon, and vanilla once again play a fine melody on the taste buds.

Big body without over doing it with medium or better carbonation.  Slightly dry in the mouth.

This is an awesome beer, hands down.  The aroma and taste have everything you would want in a barley wine plus the complexity that barrel aging adds.  I guess I am the lucky one to have this bomber by myself.  Enjoy!

Pours a deep golden color with a very lively two inch white head.  Lots of yeast sediment floating  is this beer.  Average retention on the head with nice thick clingy lacing.

Aroma is very strong in floral hops and yeast.  I am also getting a bit of lemon and spice.  Reminds me a bit of a Belgium style brew.

Taste is an instant winner.  Lots of lemon and sour grapefruit with a large amount of spice on the backend.  Very crisp and refreshing with a dryness that invites me back for another sip.  Nice complexity on this one!

Mouthfeel is light with medium to high carbonation.  Crisp and dry on the palate.

Overall a big winner in my book. A very refreshing crisp complex beer!  Try one!

Pours a deep golden color with a quarter inch white head.  Some retention on the head as a thin layer of white foam resides on top.  Lacing in sheets.

Aroma is nice.  Smells faintly sweet with a mix of malts and yeast and a slight fruit type aroma as well as a hint of spice.

Taste is crisp and sharp.  Starts with a bready yeast type flavor and works into mild hop with a mild fruit on the backend. Lots of different flavors changing gears really quickly on this beer.

Light to medium body with a sharp crisp mouth feel and a dry finish.

Overall a pretty tasty beer.  Goes down easy and has a nice level of complexity.  Try one!

Pours a dark brown, almost black.  A nice tan fluffy root beer style head.  Lots of sticky foamy lacing.

Aroma is strong. I am getting burn malts, coffee, molasses. Semi-sweet.

Taste is strong chocolate, coffee and roasted malts.  Very well balanced and enjoyable. The name is very fitting.  It is robust......lots of big flavor here.  A slight bitterness on the backend.

Medium body with medium carbonation. Creamy smooth mouth feel.

Overall, I really enjoyed this beer.  It reminded me of a stout in ways and was an easy drinking beer even with all the big flavor.  Great beer with lots of big character! Try one, or two!

Drank this about 60 degrees or so.

Pours inky black with a half glass of light brown, frothy foam.  Pretty. Lacing is thin and sticky while the retention is about average.

Aroma is a bit dry carrying roasted, chocolate, and coffee scents but not in equal amounts.  Roasted is strongest.  Not a huge sniffer.

Taste is sweet and big roast up front, giving way to wave after wave of change in the finish: chocolate, coffee, bitterness, and some dark fruits.

Thick body with mild carbonation but a bit creamy.

A touch of alcohol comes in as it warms but minimal then and doesn't really come into play.  A quality stout that could make any stout lover happy.  Enjoy!

 Totally black, fut medium brown mixed with swirls of much lighter shades of white's and tan's. Thick milkshake appearing head.

 Roast and milk chocolate

 First impression is that it's a much thinner brew than the look and smell led me to believe. It's kind of dry, and almost to tart, which is surprising for an Oatmeal version of the Stout family. No info on the alcohol level, but my guess would be at 5.0 abv or less.

 I assume this is a small new brewery, which is located some where in Missouri. This brew was good, but somewhat a mystery...in both how little is published, and what I iltimately feel about the taste of the brew. It's totally drinkable, and does peak my interest, just think it needs a few more pieces. I want to try this brewers other offerings.

Pours a cloudy medium amber color with a very thin head.  Low retention on this beer as the head dissipates quickly and leaves just a thin ring of milky foam around the edges of the glass.

Aroma is sweet and fruity.  I am getting a bit of grain and yeast, with the fruit aroma reminding me of plums and a hint of banana and a bit of spice.

Taste is really interesting. It follows the aroma pretty close.  I am getting a dry semi-sweet, but yet slightly bitter plum and sour apple flavor.  On the backend I am getting a mellow banana flavor with a hint of spice.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Dry on the palate.

Overall a decent beer, but it is very different.  I am enjoying this beer, but it is a bit odd, not really in a bad way, just different. Worth a try, but wouldn't have it all the time.

That's a dark beer.  In facts it's about perfect black and that's hard to do. Chocolate aroma over coffee overtones. Dark malt and subtle fruits (aroma).
Chocolate head with clean even lace over beer.

Oak over bitter roasted. Clean alcohol burn in end. Ver forward, Very drinkable. Actually, I see this as an "accessible" standard to compare others to.  I need to have more of these, wrap my thoughts around it.

Pours dark brown with a hint of ruby redness.  The pour creates a quarter inch tan head that quickly dissipates leaving a thin layer of foam resting on top.  Very little lacing.

The aroma is sweet with caramel malts and molasses.

The taste is sweet and rich in flavor.  Sweet caramel malts blend with molasses and dark fruit flavors with a milk chocolate showing up in the finish.  The butterscotch smooth sweetness is evident from start to finish.

Medium body with a lighter carbonation.  Smooth and soothing on the palate with a sugary sweetness on the lips.

Overall, a very impressive beer from Anchor.  Extremely well balanced with a nice array of inviting rich flavors that encourage you towards another sip.  Put this bock on your list of beers to try!

Pours clear with an enormous, frothy, off-white head.  Retention is outstanding while thickening up.  Lacing is thick, sticky, and everywhere.

Aroma is full of hops that are mainly grapefruit citrus.  Caramel and bread malts are backing it up in a healthy manner.

Taste is really light compared to what I was expecting but there is a some big grapefruit hops and bitterness in the finish.  Bread malt makes up the backbone.

Medium or possibly lighter mouth feel with light carbonation, possibly making the beer feel smaller.

Surprised that they packed such a high IBU without an unbalanced bitterness.  Nicely done and greatly appreciated.  Enjoy!

2011 Christmas Ale

Pours a deep brown color with a hint of ruby redness.  Huge frothy root beer style head.  Head slowly settles, but has good retention and thick frothy lacing that sheets down the sides of the glass even before I even have the first sip.

Aroma is big on the spices.  I am getting clove, nutmeg, and maybe some cinnamon with a slight sweet malt aroma as well.

Taste is very comparable to the aroma.  Again lots of spice.  Clove, nutmeg, cinnamon are the big flavors that are warped around a sweet malt.  A pine hop as well as a bit of floral flavors are present as well.  On the finish I am getting a bit of an orange flavor that works nicely with the spices and give it a really nice Christmas, winter style flavor.

Light to medium body with medium carbonation.  A slightly watery mouthfeel with a semi-dry, slightly bitter finish.

Overall I like this beer, but it is very much a Christmas beer. A nice interesting mix of spices and flavors make a fun beer for the season.  Put it on your list if you like the winter spiced beers!

Pours a deep golden color with a thin short lived white head.  Head settles out quickly leaving a thin milky swirl on top.  Watery spotty lacing.

Aroma is awesome.  Nice strong citrus and pine hops. Has a nice sweetness to it.

Taste starts our slightly bitter with a sweet bready malt and works into a mixture of hops.  I am getting a nice floral, citrus and a pine flavors on the backend. Big strong robust flavors.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Slightly dry on the finish and with a oily mouthfeel.

Overall a really nice IPA.  A great marriage of hop flavors and well balanced with nice bready malts.  I love the big robust flavors and it's an easy drinker.  Try one!

Pours a clear copper color with a thin white head that settles out quickly and leaves a thin layer of foam resting on top.

The aroma is a blend of light sweet malts, bread and citrus hops with a light floral and tropical fruit type scents. A very nice inviting aroma.

The flavor starts with light malts and moves into the hops toward the middle. The hops add a nice citrus and slightly earthy flavor with a slight spice that last into the finish with a slight bitterness in the aftertaste.

Light body with medium carbonation. Watery and smooth mouth feel.

Overall a very nice pale ale from new Belgian.  Nicely balanced and very drinkable.  The beer has a very refreshing hop profile that you could drink all day!  Try one!

Pours clear with a several inches of white foam to coat.  Retention is average or better, leaving behind sticky lacing quickly.

Aroma is tropical fruit pineapple and mango.  Amarillo and citra hops really come through strong.

Taste follows being tropical fruit centric.  There is some sweetness but just enough to balance.  Minimal bitterness that isn't harsh.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Finishes dry but only slightly as the juicy fruits keep the mouth liquefied.

This is way to damn easy to drink in spite of the big alcohol.  That could be a problem, nah.  Really a nice drinking IPA.  Enjoy!

Pours clear into my tulip glass.  Foam is 90% of the pour, white, fluffy, yet thick.  Retention, as is expected for the style, is outstanding, while the foams stiffens up like meringue.  Lacing is sporadic and minor.

Aroma has lemon, citrus, white pepper, and a touch of hay, barn, and mustiness that could be from wild yeast or bacteria in the barrel.  No wine but a definite oak and slender vanilla scents add to the background.

Taste is ever so slightly sweet up front before an array of flavors develop: lemon, citrus, and the barnyard take center stage in the middle, while an earthiness hits early in the end, together with pepper, slippery citrus, and dry oak.  The earthiness could be from the oak, brett, the wine, or a combination; delightfully elegant.  Pepper finish continues to build on the palate, clinging to tightly throughout.

Low end of medium body.  Carbonation is middle of the road in spite of all the foam.  Dries the palate but there is enough citrus juiciness to hold it off some.

A real interesting spin on a Saison and one not wasted on my senses.  Complex but a fun beer.  I would like to have more of these concoctions from Hill Farmstead.  Enjoy!

 Deep orangey, amber with a slight hazy. Off-white, very small bubbles of short retention foam.

 Multiple inputs all at once. Notes of: pine, grapefruit, some orange, a little spice. Big time complexity.

 Great mix of citrus, then semi-sweet malt, and nice bitterness. Not too thick of a mouthfeel and good carbonation.

 This brew is as good as everyone says. You got to like hoppy brews, and if you do, this aggressive IPA has few peers. Giant grapefruit burst and hot spicey bite of bitterness.

Pours a hazy pale golden color with some yeast sediment visible.  The head white and lively dissipating quickly like a soda leaving just a thin layer of foam resting on top.  Very little lacing.

The aroma is very nice. Fruity Belgium yeast with spices and cloves with a hint of banana and a light floral hop.

The taste is very similar to the aroma and is just as impressive.  A bready yeast mixes with sweet spices and flavors of honey and cloves with a light citrus.  The finish has a touch of sweet banana, spice and a nice floral hop, with a hint of berry lingering in the aftertaste.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Creamy and smooth with a zesty spicy mouthfeel and a dry finish.

Overall, another very impressive beer from North Coast.  The level of complexity is awesome, as new flavors seem to appear with every sip.  Very drinkable, smooth and enjoyable.  Try one!

Pours a dark brown, almost black with a thin light tan head.  The head dissipates quickly leaving a thin creamy layer of foam resting on top.  Lots of thick web like lacing.

The aroma is a blend of dark malt and earthy, grassy hops with a hint of floral.

The taste starts with a dark roasted malt and quickly gives way to a bitter earthy and citrus sour grapefruit hop flavor.  A fairly bold wood type flavor shows itself in the middle and continues into the finish and aftertaste.  The finish has a sharp acidic grapefruit like bitterness that lingers on the palate.

Light to medium body with light carbonation.  A crisp sharp smoothness in the mouthfeel with a dry finish.

Overall, an enjoyable beer with a some nice characters.  The bold earthy wood flavor stands out to me as one of characters that is different about this beer, but in a good way.  The bitterness seems to be what this beer is all about, so if you like bitter, this beer will fit the bill. A tasty beer that fits the chilly spring season well. Try one!

Pours a dark brown color with a thin khaki colored head.  The head is thin, but has good retention.  Some spotty lacing.

The aroma is a combination of caramel and toffee malt with dark fruits.

The taste is dark and creamy with a blend of sweet caramel and toffee malts and milk chocolate that quickly give way to a dark fruit flavor that lasts to the finish.  Some warm from the alcohol is noticeable in the finish and aftertaste.  A slightly sweet earthy flavor in the aftertaste.

Medium body with light to medium carbonation.  Creamy smooth mouthfeel.

Overall, another very enjoyable beer from Central Waters.  Nice flavors that work perfectly together making for a great winter beer.  The mouthfeel is especially nice on this beer and seems to fit the style and the flavors well.  Try one!

Pours a slightly cloudy straw yellow color with a thin white head.  The head dissipates quickly leaving behind a swirl of thin foam resting on top. No lacing.

The aroma is refreshing and spicy.  Yeast and wheat with citrus, banana, and spice.

The taste starts with a sweet malt and quickly works into a nice blend of wheat and yeast.  A spiced banana bread with some lemon and orange citrus flavors follow with a nice wheat and coriander spice lingering in the aftertaste.

Light body with light to medium carbonation.  A slightly oily mouthfeel with a dryness on the palate.

Overall, a very nice summer beer from Two Brothers! Very drinkable with nice rich flavors that would be prefect to enjoy on a hot day!  Well balanced and refreshing with a very nice aroma to boot!  Try one!

Pours a pink amber color with a half inch head that has a pink hue to it.  Very little retention on the head, quickly dissipates leaving a think layer of foam floating on top.  Watery lacing.

Aroma is mild.  I am getting just a hint of cherry and malt.

Taste is a nice sweet cherry with a tartness that stays on the palate.
Relatively simple and straight forward.......Cherry.

Light body with Medium carbonation.  A watery mouthfeel.

Overall an enjoyable beer.  I don't think I would want to drink this all the time, but it's a fun tasty beer that is different than the norm.  Might make a good Christmas night beer? Try one!

Pours a very dark brown, almost black with a half inch head.  Head dissipates quickly leaving a thin layer of foam floating on top.  Lacing is above average.

Aroma is rich in coffee, chocolate and roasted malts.  The aroma is very nice and inviting.

Taste follows the aroma very close.  Coffee is the main player here, but I get a nice balance between the coffee and the roasted malts with some nice chocolate mixed in.

Medium body with light to medium carbonation.  Milky smooth on the palate.

This is a big winner in my book.  Very nice flavors with a nice level of complexity.  I not only would have this again, I would make a point of buying it next time I am in "Cheese Land".

Pours a slightly cloudy brown with a hint if amber glow.  The pour reveals a huge frothy creamy colored head that required me to wait a few minutes to finish the pour as the head wanted to overflow the glass.  Lots of thick sticky web like lacing.

The aroma is an enjoyable blend of malts with a citrus and pine hop.  The malts are nutty with caramel and coco and work nicely with the hops.

The taste follows the aroma with a nice malty base of nut, caramel, brown sugar, and coco with a big blast of citrus hops.  The hops quickly change the fairly sweet flavors of the malts into a bold bitterness.  The citrus hops are fairly complex with grapefruit, pine, a hint of orange and some earthy flavors near the finish.  A combination of both sweetness and bitter linger on the palate in the after taste.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  A smooth drinkable mouthfeel with a bit of a oiliness and a somewhat dry finish and a sweetness on the lips.

Overall, a very nice brown ale with a boat load of enjoyable hops.  Well balance and very drinkable with a nice level of complexity!  If you are a hop head, get this one fresh and enjoy the massive hop flavors in this beer. Try one!

Pours a slightly cloudy golden straw color with a one inch tightly formed  white head.  Good retention on the head which settles down to a quarter inch resting on top, but has good staying power.  Thick heavy lacing sheets down the sides of the glass.

The aroma has the Saison Belgium yeast aromas that you would expect, but also has a strong rosemary aroma along side a clove with some bold wheat or grain type scents as well as some sweet floral.

The taste is similar to the aroma.  Belgium yeast and spices blend into an array of complex flavors of cloves, rosemary, thyme with a hint of lemon and floral.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Oily smooth feeling on the palate.

Overall an interesting beer.  Well balanced and enjoyable, but some of the flavors might be a bit unusual for some.  The herbal spices are upfront and bold with the Belgium Saison favors coming in to balance things out.  Extra points for creative brewing, but not something that I would drink every day.  Worth a try for it's uniqueness while still maintaining a very enjoyable complex brew!

 Pale gold, thought it had haze but the brew cleared up and it warmed up. Soft white delicate foam of average retention. Would be kind of normal looking, but it looks to have a little viscosity to it.

 Fresh citrus with some grainy notes. I get more more orange than grapefruit much lower volume. There's a bunch more notes, mostly pine, light grass, and wheat or rye.

 First impression is fruit juicy. It's fresh with wheat and/or breadiness, and  with virtually no bitterness. Well carbonated but fits the brew.

 Great beer, it's a mild beer for Three Floyds but would be bold for many other brewers. Favorable, and yet highly drinkable. I did the mix of citrus and malts, maybe it reminds me of a great fruit pastry. Much more restrained than the wildly popular Zombie Dust, but not much easier to get cause it's so likeable. It's another brew example of why FFF's is much loved by beer geeks.

Pours with a slight haze while almost an inch of light tan, thick foam coats the liquid.  Retention is average on the outside while lacing is juicy and thick, quickly receding back.

Aroma is straight forward cream ale: bready malt, grass hops, and some sweet grains.

Taste seemed to be a bit surprising.  There was a creamy, teetering on a cream soda type of flavor that really built from the middle to the end.   Not much else there as I didn't take another sip.

Light body with a good amount of carbonation.

The taste did this beer in for me.  I don't want a beer that makes me think of soda pop.  My first beer from Iowa won't deter me from trying something else.  Enjoy!

Pours a cloudy straw color with thin white head that settles quickly into swirl of creamy white floating on top. Spotty lacing.

Aroma is crisp and clean.  I am getting wheat, yeast, and a light fruit that reminds me of banana and clove. Aroma is slightly sweet and and creamy.

Taste is creamy and smooth.  Follows the aroma, with a nice balance between wheat, yeast, and light banana flavors. Very refreshing.

Medium body with medium carbonation. Creamy and smooth mouth feel.


Overall an awesome beer.  Refreshing and clean with perfectly balanced flavors. This beer is a very easy drinker and would be prefect on a hot summer day.  This one is a must try!

 Dark brown or black, I always struggle on distinction between the two. Dark tan foam made up of small bubbles.

 Gorgeous is a word I seldom use to describe the aroma of beer. But this brew is a superb mix of prunes or apricots, dark chocolate, and high end bourbon. There's a ton of other great flavors like molasses, Belgian sugars, and expresso.

 First gate is passed, in that the taste flavors match up with the aromas. My initial taste notes are dried dark fruits, a bit of cherry, chocolate, and molasses. Not a thick mouthfeel, which is a surprise for the big flavors that make up this brew. There's a bite of bourbon fire at the end, but I'm not complaining.

 A really solid BBA Imperial Stout from a brewer not known for high end stuff. That's a same as I really liked the flavor through this beer. Defiantly should be considered among the best F this country's Imperial Stouts. I am not sure this still being made by the brewer, this was a 2009 vintage. If it's not being made, it's our loss.

Pours a ruby brown color with a huge three finger white dense foamy head.  Great retention on the head and nice frothy lacing that sheets down the side of the glass.

Aroma is malty and mildly sweet.  Some grain type aromas as well as some earthy yeast.

Taste starts malty and works into a smooth bready flavor.  This beer has a slight sweetness to it that lingers in the finish.  I am also getting a very mild spice lingering on the finish, nothing over the top, but just right.

Light body with light carbonation.  Watery mouth feel.

Overall another enjoyable beer from New Glarus.  Nothing over the top, but very solid.  An easy drinking beer with a nice well balanced personality.  Try one!

Batch #1

Pours a deep amber color with an inch and a half of off white frothy head.  Good retention on the head with thick sticky web like lacing that clings to the sides of the glass.

The aroma is a blend of sweet malts and citrus hops with touch of grapefruit and a light grassy scent.  The aroma on the beer is unusual in that in only five minutes after the pour, the aroma seems to just disappear and becomes very muted.

The taste begins dry with a caramel malt and works into a blend of pine and citrus hops with a grapefruit like bitter acidity.  The malts carry all the way to the finish with a fairly bitter hop flavor that lingers on the palate.  A wood like flavor appears in the aftertaste and adds another layer of complexity.  As the beer warms, I am noticing more of a honey sweetness that appears near the middle and continues into the finish, as well as the aftertaste.

Medium body with light to medium carbonation.  A softness on the palate with a slightly dry finish.

Overall, an enjoyable IPA.  This beer is a solid offering from Samuel Adams with a nice balance between the malts and the hops.  Very drinkable with the bitter lingering finish bringing me back for another sip.  A fun beer to try, but there are better Imperial IPA out there.  This one is enjoyable and worth a try.  Try one!

Pours a ruby brown color with a thick fluffy two finger khaki colored head.  Good retention on the head. Lots of thick lacing.

The aroma is roasted malts, milk chocolate, and hints of vanilla.

The taste starts with a rich roasted malt and chocolate flavor which works into a fairly bold coffee with a soft vanilla lingering with the roasted malt finish.  Some bitterness on the finish.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Creamy, silky smooth mouth feel.

Overall, a nice easy drinking beer with nice flavors.  The vanilla is a nice touch and adds a little something extra. Nothing super amazing going on here, but very enjoyable! Try one!

Poured opaque into my new snifter glass (T\thanks Ed) with a minimal brown foam.  Retention and lacing will minimal as well.

Aroma is standard Bourbon County underneath a solid layer of coffee.  Smooth coffee that accents the beer well, becoming the focal point without over whelming the rest.  Bourbon, oaky, roasted malt, dark fruits, and more all sit in the glass.

Taste is bourbon with the coffee, sweet, and oak solid in the finish.  Dark fruits and roasted malt make their presence known also.  The alcohol is there but more subdued than a fresh Bourbon County Brand Stout.

Huge body that coats the cheeks and gums.  Carbonation is minimal, just as it should be.  Creamy.

A great spin on the base beer that I think is  better than the base.  The complexity of coffee, including the aroma and taste, are perfect for this beer.  This was actually my second bottle, having had my first when released; drink now rather than later as the coffee is already starting to leave.  Enjoy!

Poured from a 6.3 ounce bottle that was just bottled in 2010 but from the beer is from 2007.

Pours clear with minimal foam, retention, or lacing.  In spite of this, the deep red hue shines brightly and brilliantly.

Aroma is mostly raspberry.  Chocolate, sweet, caramel all combined to make this a dessert by itself.

Taste is once again raspberry centric.  Chocolate and caramel come through in the finish and round out a nice beer.

Low carbonation with a light body but seemingly  good on this beer.

The alcohol isn't present much in the beer for how high the alcohol content is.  Unfortunately I could drink this one all day but the damn bottle of 6.3 ounces is too little.  Thank you to my brother-in-law Jim for picking me up six bottles at the recent release.  Enjoy!

Pours slightly cloudy with a half inch of pure white foam.  Foam is large bubbled, loosely packe typical of the style.  Staying power is minimal as is lacing.  Very effervescent.

Aroma smells like a wheat beer, an American wheat at that.  Grain, maybe cereal in nature,

Taste is about the same.  Wheat, grain, corn, and lemon zest, maybe.  Buttery.

Light body with light carbonation.

This isn't a good beer for any style let alone a farmhouse.  Definitely many other beers out there to go after first.  Enjoy!

Pours a dark black color with a one inch frothy tan head.  Head dissipates quickly leaving a ring of foam around the edges of the glass. Spotty lacing.

Aroma seems a bit muted, but consists of dark roasted malts, coffee and a bit of chocolate.

Taste is much bolder than the aroma.  Big coffee on the first sip.  Coffee flavors blend into a bitter dark chocolate flavor and finish with a touch of oatmeal.  Bitter, but slightly sweet at the same time.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Creamy mouthfeel.  Seems a bit thin for a stout.

Overall a nice beer! I am a big coffee fan, so this is right up my ally.  A solid enjoyable beer if you like this style!

Batch #1

Pours a clear dark amber brown color with a huge frothy khaki colored head.  I had to wait a few minutes for the head to diminish to finish the pour.  Good retention on the head with lots of thick lacing.

The aroma is a blend of malts and bread with a citrus hop and a touch of spice.  A nice aroma, but a bit weak.

The taste starts with a malty breadiness and quickly moves into a light floral and lemon and finishes with a big grapefruit flavor with a bit of spice. A dry bitterness that has a lasting affect on the palate.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  A slightly chalky mouthfeel with a drying bitterness that lingers.

Another enjoyable beer from Samuel Adams. This is the first Red IPA that I have had and I find this beer represents this style well.  A nice balance between the malts and the citrus hops with the dry bitter finish wrapping things up nicely.  Give one a try!

2009 bottle.

Pours opaque with an inch of rich, brown foam.  Frothier as it recedes, the smallish amount of foam has a bit of staying power.  Each sip creates some lacing that quickly hides back at level.

Aroma roasted malt, dark fruits, and licorice.  Chocolate with some sweetness.  Nice.

Taste brings more of the same.  Dark fruits and roasted malt intermingle with chocolate and sweetness to entertain the sense.  The finish brings a peat that leaves a residue of ash and that is preceded by licorice.

Medium body might actually be pushing the envelope as it seems thin, but that is horrible.  The age has allowed it to lose almost all carbonation which might compound the feeling of less body.  Slight creaminess and silkiness is there too.

A solid beer that took me by surprise.  This beer was much more complex than expecting for a two year old oatmeal stout.  The finish makes this tough to really throw back.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque: no color even penetrates the fringes.  Foam is mocha, loosely packed allowing it to quickly dissipate.  Pretty while it lasts.  Sporadic, dotty lacing.

Aroma doesn't hesitate in bringing it.  Roast highlights while undertones of chocolate and licorice.  Molasses but only mildly sweet.  Touches of smoke evolve.

Taste is complex.  Sweet molasses starts up, seemingly to reappear in the finish.  The middle transition roast and licorice mostly.  Finally, in the end, notes of dark cherry, light chocolate, and ashy, chalky smoke enter the taste buds.

Minimally carbonated while a few sips in starts to leave the lips sticky.  Body is big.  Dries the palate almost immediately.

I haven't been fond of Duck Rabbit beers but this one brings it nicely.  Not an overbearing RIS.  Good balance while keeping it complex.  Enjoy!

  Very cool color, very dark brown with ruby red tone when held to the light. Foam is tan, and lasted surprisingly lone for a barleywine.

 Dried fruit and caramel, and soft malt in the background. It's aroma is inviting yet subtle.

 First impression is that it's not as aggressive as I thought it would be. However, subsequent tasting reveal more complexity. The fruits come through apricots and raisins, then a nice toffee, a touch of alcohol. Don't really get the bourbon, just some woody tastes, and very faint vanilla. Really low thickness for the style, in my opinion.

 More complex than I originally thought. It's always been a style that's been confusing to me. This brew isn't overly asserterive, and has some nice fruit and toffee notes, poured on top of some booze.

Short Rating
Arom 7 (22%)
Taste: 7 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 7 (28%)
Overall: 7.2

My buddy Tom from work picked this one up for me while on vacation with his family.  Thanks Tom!

Pours a pitch black color with very little head.  What little head is present disappears almost immediately.  No lacing.

Aroma is a mix of roasted malts and dark coco and roasted coffee.  Has a slightly sweet scent.

Taste follows the aroma pretty closely.  Roasted malts, dark coco and roasted coffee with a bit of molasses.

Mouth feel is smooth and creamy, but a little bit on the thin side for an oatmeal stout.  Medium carbonation which I found unusual for this style.

Overall a nice beer.  Nice dark flavors that work well together.  Not a typical stout, but a tasty beer that I would have again.

 Reddish, dark amber and this rich color is well coordinated by a medium latte-like foamy head.

 Tree fruit and citrus fruit mingle well. A bit of a fall grain field, dry and then toasty.

 Fruit sweetness quickly swirls into caramel sweetness, then leans out as a wave of hops oils roll in. First impression suggests big and chewy, but big hop profile does it's offsetting job. But don't be mistaken, this feels like a big brew, and it is. Lingering taste isn't as bitter as it is herbal and piney. A touch of heat underneath, but not overly so. Only picked up the cherry notes after reading others op's.

 First, congrat's to Bell's for a very capable and worthy beer, to commemorate their 11,000 brew batch. The Imperial Red style allows massively complex malt build, that results in deeply complex group of flavorful grains. But the real show stealer is super wide volume of hops, with a crazy spread of regional/varietal/flavor  types. Being a big fan of both Oracle and Hopslam, I am not surprised at how great I believe this beer to be. It certainly goes to eleven.

Pours opaque with an inch of brown, frothy foam that seduces the eye.  Retention is a bit above average while there is no lacing.

Aroma is coffee.  Additional quaffs bring roasted malt with a surprising caramel sweetness creating the backbone.  Chocolate rides in late for added complexity.

Taste has coffee throughout with a bit of bitter coffee hanging on in the finish (that old fashioned coffee flavor).   Vanilla, roasted malt, chocolate and a touch of sweetness mingle and are pleasantly balanced.

Medium body with good carbonation from a sixteen month old bottle.  Dries.

Much better than expected based on the age of an organic brew.  The coffee still takes the spotlight of this beer while letting other facets come through to give off the essence of the underlying porter.  Has a bit of a stout to it.  Enjoy!

Pours a medium amber color with a huge frothy off white head.  The head needs time to settle before I can finish the pour.  Great retention on the head with thick sticky lacing.

The aroma is a very nice blend of sweet malt and brown sugar with citrus.

The taste is sticky sweet malt up front and works into a blend of pine and citrus hops with a mild bitterness on the finish.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  A hoppy oily texture on the palate.

Overall, a very nice beer from Lagunitas.  Great flavors that are well balanced and enjoyable.  This is a nice hopped up beer that is well balanced by the sweet malts making it perfect for a cold day.  It has a holiday / winter feel to it without all the goofy spices often found in a lot of winter beer!  A perfect example of quality brewing! A must try beer!

Pours clear with a nice half glass of off-white, thick foam.  Retention is about average with lacing mucking up the glass with a stickiness.

Aroma has pine and citrus hops that are there to balance the extra-large dose of malt.  Toffee, burnt, toasted, and caramel: just a huge heaping of sweetness.  Vanilla and molasses are also there.

Taste follows the nose quite a bit.  Sweetness is there all the way through with a pine hops really balancing.  The bitterness cuts quickly.  A touch of vanilla and molasses add some complexity.  An awareness of alcohol is present.

Big body but towards the lighter end with moderate carbonation.

This is a big sweetness malt drink.  Lots of sugars necessitate the large dose of hops that try to balance.  Which I feel they do to the most point.  Had on a hot day and it quenched my thirst to the entire bottle in 40 minutes.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque with a bit of light seeping in around the edges making it a ruby brown color.  Mocha foam is about 1.5 inches in thickness with a nice froth to it.  Retention is above average.  Lacing is thick, spotty, and juicy.

Citrus hops met my nose first.  The longer the beer sat the more big, roasted, molasses, chocolate, sugary malts met the olfactories.  Dark fruits (prunes and raisins) come through too.

Taste is sweet chocolate and caramel that only lasts briefly.  Next comes wave after wave of mal roasted, molasses, sugar, dark fruits, and the kitchen sink.  Leaves some ashy, roasted, burnt malt on the back of the mouth and lingering along with a bitter chocolate and slight hop.

Big body, huge for a black ipa with ample carbonation to hold the body.  Dries the palate.

Taste more like an over hopped stout than a black ipa.  Complex and enormous ipa.  The alcohol is there a bit, with those thick stout flavors making it difficult to really have more than one or finish it alone.  Enjoy!

Pours a deep amber color that has a orange glow.  Nice creamy one inch head.  Lower retention on the head.  A thin layer of foam resides on top of this beer throughout the session.  Spotty lacing.

Aroma is mostly mild fruit and big malt and yeast.

Taste is very nice.  Starts off with a nice fruit flavor.  I can't decide which fruits I am tasting, could be a berry of some type, has a slight tartness and works into a well balanced malty blend of fruits and malts with a bit of yeast flavors on the finish.  A hint of spice or clove is present on the back end as well. Finishes with both a mild tartness and a bit of sweetness.

Light to medium body with a medium carbonation.

A very nice beer from Dark Horse.  Nice level of complexity and everything is well balanced and very enjoyable.  It was not what I was expecting and it was a nice surprise!  Try one!

Pours opaque with the foam acting and looking just a like a stout mocha, thick, creamy, and rich.  Great retention with some sexy lacing.

Aroma is first, with the cap opening, citrus hops that explode.  This calms down and the malts step forward.  Mildly sweet, chocolate, ash, and roast come through.

Taste is along the lines of a stout.  Mild chocolate flavor transition to molasses and sweetness.  The end brings citrus hops to the palate as roasted malt it detected.  Both last into the finish with a touch of coffee here and there.  Alcohol burns late.

Big body beer with ample carbonation.  Creamy in the mouth adds to the depth of the beer.  Dries the mouth.

Much more of a well rounded beer than Either.  Sweetness is not a major part of this beer but the dark, drier malts.  Much more of a stout than a black IPA, reminding of something that Three Floyds would cook up.  Enjoy!

Pours opaque but some light gets through about 30% of the beer.  Foam is half a glass, thick, and tan.  Retention is average if not better with the foam becoming creamy.  Lacing in nice.

Aroma is dominated by roasted malt and bitter chocolate.  Not much else there for me outside of a slight caramel/sweet factor.

Taste was a bit sweet at first; much more so than the aroma would lead it to be.  Sweet chocolate comes in the middle with roasted malt and bitter chocolate take over near the end.  Slight coffee and maybe even smoke arrive late.

Creaminess in the mouth makes this beer feel big in the mouth.  Carbonation is really weak but the beer is over  a year old.

Not a bad porter.  Good characteristics for the style and it held up to a year in the cellar.  If they still make this I am up for another.  Enjoy!

 Deep amber with a faint tint of ruby, then a precious stone like shine. Delicate bubbles in dark tan.

 Brown sugar, little coffee.

 None of the sweetness suggested in the nose. And then the next surprise is the dryness. Dark fruit but not typical sweet profile. Thick mouthfeel is balanced by the small bubble carbonation. There a kind of bitterness but I couldn't nail the potential sources.

 Like this brew. Not a typical Porter in any way, but I'm know that's where the brewers were headed. My fav part is the balanced of the dryness, low sweetness, and complex background flavor notes. Makes me want to find more beers from this place.

Love the pirate theme of this beer label. Arrggghh!

Pours a clear brown color with a thin head that dissipates quickly leaving just a thin swirl of tan foam on top.  Lacing is sticky and spotty.

Aroma is big in dark fruits and alcohol.   A touch of wood type aromas.

Taste is sweet and mostly dark fruit, malts, and lots of alcohol coming out on this one.  Maybe some molasses.

Light watery body with low carbonation.

Overall, it's not my bag.  I might be kind of tough on the rating on this beer, but is not for me.  Does not seem balanced and I am getting way to much alcohol coming out on this to make it enjoyable.

 Bright red-orange with a haze, reminds me of a West Coast style IPA. Off white, medium thick head.

 Big Citrus right off the bat, mostly orange & tangerine. A faint funk in the background.

 Light touch overall. It's got an upfront personality. And there's was a disagreement bewteen my our tasting group of whether or not this beer is truly sessionable. I initially detected low notes of citrus. It's does strike the uninitiated as bitter, but to me hop profile just has personality (spice, funk, and tropical fruits).

 Can tell this is the son of Jolly P., it's a very unique IPA. Low abv makes this a consideration for a multiple thirst quencher. Had this a tad old, dated 4/3 and drank on 7/28.

 Beautiful deep, red-purple. It clear with a fizzy, thick pink foam.

 Raspberries and vanilla perfection.

 The full raspberries fruit sweetness does a very fast fade, where the ripe off the vine fruit blast melts into . Never would guess the abv level. Medium mouthfeel but not cloying in any way, and a bit of carbonation intially.

 This is a completely executed brew. Balance and sophistication. A pefect finish to a food pairing dinner.

From a bottle purchased in November of 2009.

Pours cloudy (chill haze as this one was cold) with about an inch of off-white foam.  Retention was average, maybe.  Lacing is splotchy and juicy, mostly sliding back into the beer.

Aroma is sweet fruits up front that give way to sweet caramel malts and dark fruits (as it warmed).  Toffee, molasses (actually probably brown sugar), and a host of other notes swam their way across the ole sniffer.

Taste is lots of sweetness.  Caramel malts add a lot to the makeup of this beer.  Dark fruits ring true in the middle.  The end brings sweet, juicy fruits with a touch of roasted malt for a touch more complexity.

Big end of medium body with minimal carbonation.  Drying with gusts of alcohol.

When I purchased a few years back with a couple of other Central Waters beers I thought this was the dud of the group.  Wrong.  Darn tasty and a solid barleywine offering.  Possibly a bit on the sweet side.  Enjoy!

Pours a clear amber color with a two finger white head.  Good retention on the head.

Aroma is light, mostly grains and malt.  Pleasant, but fairly mild.

Taste is similar to the aroma.  Mostly grains and malt.  Pretty straight forward here.  Reminds me of some of the mainstream oktoberfest beers that I have had.

Light body with medium carbonation.  Watery mouth feel with a slight bitterness in the finish.

Overall this beer is enjoyable, but pretty average.  Nothing about it was bad, but at the same time, nothing about it really drew me in and made me feel like I was drinking a "special" beer.  It does have great drinkability and the girl on the label is cute!

Pours clear with an inch of tan foam that has an average retention and some spotty but thick.

Aroma is malt forward as is expected.  Not all sweet and caramel.  Raisin, smoke, and toffee all let their presence be known.  No hops and, in spite of the high alcohol, no alcohol.

Taste is quite rich.  Toffee, smoke, raisin, caramel, and sweetness all form a nice tight package.

Big body and thick, almost syrupy.  Light carbonation cleans the palate a bit between sips.

For the amount of alcohol this beer is ridiculously easy to drink.  Very nice flavors aid here.  A solid beer that was better than expected.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with an inch of light tan foam.  Retention is average while the lacing is thick, sheeting, and fairly sticky.

Aroma, at first, was dark fruits but not seethingly dark.  Sweet caramel show through along with light alcohol sting.

Taste isn't all that complex but pleasant and similar to the nose.  Dark fruits and light caramel accents highlight the flavor.  The finish is clean with a touch of alcohol.

Medium body with a light carbonation.

The alcohol is evident but slightly, which doesn't take away from the beer as it is only a side note.  Not much in the way of hops, which is fine, but it wouldn't be a nice addition.  Don't a ground breaking beer but nice.  Enjoy!

2012 Vintage

Pours an amber brown color with a thin khaki colored head.  The head disappears almost immediately, leaving a thin swirl of foam clinging to the edges of the glass.  A small amount of spotty lacing.

The aroma is rich and intoxicating.  Sweet toffee malts and dark fruits blend with a light vanilla and bourbon.

The taste is very similar to the aroma.  Sweet toffee malts blend into a soft vanilla with a hint of bourbon.  A sweet dark fruit, possible raisin or prune brings in the finish.  Some warmth on the finish from the higher abv.

Medium body with light carbonation.  Dry on the palate with a syrupy sweetness.

An amazing beer with sweet, complex, enjoyable flavors.  If you like this style beer, this one is going to be hard to beat!  A great winter beer that I look forward to having again! Try one!

Pours a muddy deep brown color with a zesty half inch mocha colored head.  The head is soda like and dissipates quickly leaving no sign that it ever existed.  No lacing.

The aroma is zesty with spices and chili pepper and a roasted chocolate malt hiding underneath.

The taste is very similar to the aroma.  Roasted chocolate malts provide a backbone for a blend of zesty spices and chili pepper.  A bit of heat from the peppers, but seems to be balanced well with the chocolate malts. A spicy zing on the after taste that lingers on the palate.

Medium body with light to medium carbonation.  Creamy and smooth on the palate with a prickly zesty finish.

Overall, a very nice beer.  A unique style that I have not had very often, but I do enjoy.  I am a big fan of chili pepper, so I might be a bigger fan of the style than some.  A solid beer with a nice balance to the spices and heat provided by the smooth creamy chocolate flavors.  This is not a beer that I would want to drink all night, but one hits the spot!  Try one!

 Deep brown, but when just a tad's left in your glass it dark mahogany. Light brown, soft foam head of low-medium retention. Very little lacing.

 Super appealing aroma. Dark fruit and brown sugar are my initial thoughts. It's caramel malty, but not in an overhwhelming way. Then faintly some peat and chocolate.

 Surprise, much lower flavor profile than I would have expected. Not sweet, mostly crisp and dry. The typical thick mouthfeel of oatmeal stouts is barely there.

 It's a likeable beer, just an atypical Oatmeal Stout. Very easy drinking, and not too filling. I like the roasty malt taste, and the aroma is killer. If I had access to this on a regular basis it's a smooth option.

From a Batch 77 bottle.

Effervescent on the crown removal in the bottle that it kicked up the yeast in the bottom.

Pours littered with small and medium size yeast clumps.  foam is huge: large bubbles that are white and sticky.  Retention is outstanding with foam becoming thick enough for a lemon pie.  Lacing is sticky but a bit wispy.

Aroma has fruity esters with touches of pepper and lot of caramel and even some toffee.

Taste is caramel that gives way to fruitiness and spice.  The finish hits the alcohol which seems to amplify the spice.

Medium mouth that becomes thick mid swallow.  Carbonation, in spite of the oozing foam from the bottle, is minimal.

Slightly alcoholic and the sugars in the finish makes this difficult to have more than one bottle, if the whole bottle.  Flavor is really nice.  Enjoy1

A vigorous pour brings out a third of a glass of white foam that is a touch stiff.  Stiffening about as it recedes at a normal pace there is virtually no lacing throughout the drink.

Aroma is the typical pumpkin ale spice nutmeg and cinnamon.  Nice though - not over powering or conquering.  Underlying sweetness comes to the top too.

Taste is well balanced.  Sweetness, pumpkin, nutmeg, and cinnamon.  The cinnamon blends with, possibly, hops in the finish to give off a strange flavor that lingered (this seem to ease the more I had).  Taste up front is mild.

Light end of medium body with medium carbonation helps to hold up an otherwise light bodied beer.  Dries the palate more than expected.

One of the better pumpkin beers that I have ha it isn't a huge spice bomb.  I would have this again but from year to year.  Enjoy!

I was saving this one for my 2011 Halloween Beer!

Pours a clear deep amber color with a ruby red glow.  Huge white head that settles out slowly leaving a nice half inch layer floating on top.  Lacing is web like and sticky.

Aroma is slightly sweet.  Malts, caramel, and citrus hops.

Taste starts out smooth sweet malts and bread and works into a spicy citrus hop. Getting some grapefruit type flavors in the citrus hop.  Finishes with a bitterness.  I get a slight bit of warmth off this beer in the finish as well.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Dry on the palate.

Overall a tasty brew!  Well balanced with a nice bold hop character.  Watch you back with this one.  It's named after a vampire!

Scot opened this to celebrate the birth of my daughter.  The normal beer is rare as it is, this version more so.  So as a beer drinker I'm particularly grateful, and it's amazing.  As a rule, I don't think anything is perfect, so I don't give out 10's, but I think it's fair to call this rare gem- something you'll likely never try near perfect.

Look:  I must admit, there is a 1/8" translucence on the edge of the beer.  Stouts should be near black and this suggests it is less than it.  This is by no means a flaw, it's just not as black as night.

Aroma, Smooth bourbon dark sweet malts.

Taste:  Tastes like Bourbon County, but amazingly smooth.  Almost no heat.  So easy to put down.  Amazing.

Pours a cloudy deep amber color with a thin cream colored head.  Great retention on the head.  Good lacing with tightly formed bubbles.

Aroma is rich and strong. Lots of nice citrus hops mixed with rye and malts.  Has a clean refreshing scent that is slightly sweet.

Taste starts off fairly bitter and works into a sweet malty finish.  A blend of pine and citrus hops flavor blends well with the rye and the malts.  Crisp clean and enjoyable blend of flavors.

Medium body with a light carbonation.  A slight dryness on the finish.

Overall another great beer from Founders!  Well balanced and very drinkable. Try one!

Pours black as tar with a thin dark brown head that dissipates quickly, leaving a ring of foam wrapped around the edges of the glass. No lacing.

The aroma is smoke with dark fruit, dark chocolate and dark roasted malt.  A light sweetness to the aroma is noticeable.

The taste is dark, rich and bold.  Starts with a dark fruit and a molasses flavor with a light smoked taste.  The smoked flavor is present from start to finish, but is not intrusive and gives the beer some nice warmth and character.  The middle shows some dark coffee flavors that continue into the finish with a nice roasted malt flavor wrapping things up and hanging around in the after taste.

Medium body with light carbonation.  A bit lighter on the palate than I was expecting from this beer, but it has a creamy smooth mouthfeel with a dry finish.

Overall, an impressive offering from Dark Horse.  Well balance with a nice level of complexity.  The smoke is noticeable, but is not over the top, and adds some nice character to the beer.  This beer is big and bold and would be perfect on a cold winter night!  Try one!

Pours fairly opaque with an inch or better of tan foam.  Retention is above average with a bit a lacing.

Aroma fits the beer perfectly: raisin, prunes, sugar, and a touch of heat.

Taste a bit more of the same.  Raisin, prunes, and a host of other dark fruits come through nicely.  Belgian candy sugar adds sweetness and complexity.  Alcohol didn't start to hit until late in the drink.

Big body with more carbonation than expected but that didn't take away from the beer.

A really easy drinking quad.  Bottle was only a year old but so tasty and easy to drink.  Alcohol is well hidden.  Enjoy!

Pours a dark ruby brown with a shortly lived thin tan head.  Very little left of the head as it disappears into a thin tan swirl floating on top. Spotty watery lacing.

Aroma is big on coffee with a hint of coca and dark roasted malts.  I might also detect a hint of vanilla.

Taste is similar to the aroma.  Starts out mild and works into a nice blend of dark chocolate and coffee.  A hint of vanilla lingers on the palate and is semi-sweet in the finish.

Medium body with medium carbonation.  Milky and smooth with a bit of a watery finish for the mouth feel.

Overall a tasty brew.  The coffee and the coco flavors are well balanced and makes this a very enjoyable beer.  Goes down easy, but would also make a nice sipper in front of a warm fire on a cold night.

Pours opaque with a half inch of mocha foam.  Fleeting quickly there is some sparse and juicy foam that creates a ring as  you tip the glass.

Aroma is full: roasted, smoked peat, chocolate, coffee, and a splash of licorice.

Complex flavors wrap this brew.  Caramel sweetness joins peat, roast, and chocolate.  Bitter chocolate, some coffee, and even ash stay on the palate.  Licorice and maybe spiced hops seems to come out very late on the tongue.

Not as big of body as expected and much more carbonation zested the lips than expected.  Dry.

A solid beer that only had a few small flaws.  Aroma and taste are both complex.  Both are well mixed so that each of the differences can be appreciated.  Enjoy!

Pours cloudy with a couple of inches of thick, white foam to cap.  Retention is average with a bit of meringue forming on top.  No lacing to speak of.

Aroma is straight forwar yeast, fruity (orange), and maybe a touch pear, green apple, and/or green grape.

Taste is a bit thin.  Same comes through from the nose.  Additions of light banana and coriander (some type of very slight spice (clove)).

Very light in the mouth with a zesty carbonation that sticks to both the front and back of the tongue.

Very drinkable as it is easy on the palate and nose.  This is a very light beer but still seems to pack some flavor and aroma, just don't expect something over the top.  Delicate with subtle complexities.  Enjoy!

Pour clear with a huge white, meringue foam.  Retention is crazy good while lacing begins immediately.

Aroma is oak forwar it busts out first and foremost.  Lots of toasted and caramel malts give it a sweet, malty smell.  Citrus hops give it a nice fruity scent.

Taste starts off with oak, has oak in the end, has oak in the finish.  A good dose of citrus hops hits late while malts are throughout.  Hits of vanilla are evident too.  Roasted/chocolate malt eventually makes it way to the surface also.

Medium body with a ridiculous amount of over carbonation.  Dries the palate.

The large carbonation is way too much for my style: it seems to take away from the beer.  The white oak is one my favorite flavors in a beer.  When I first poured I thought it might be contaminated.  Enjoy!

Pours a cloudy straw yellow with a thin white head.  Head quickly disappears leaving a thin layer of white swirl floating on top.  Spotty watery lacing.

Aroma is clean and refreshing. I am getting yeast with some spice and a bit of orange citrus and banana.

Taste is very similar to the aroma.  Semi-sweet flavors.  Lots of yeast and clove flavors with a light crisp lemon citrus and a hint of banana.  A bit tart and dry on the finish.

Body is light with medium carbonation. Milky smooth on the palate.

Overall a very nice refreshing beer.  Nice level of complexity and is well balanced.  Pour me another!

Pours clear which needs to be seen while holding up to the light.  Foam head is tan, not lasting long.  Retention is fleeting with lacing that is thick around the liquid level.

Aroma is tart with sour cherries adding.  Leather and sweetness are very mildly competing while complicating.

Taste is sweet at first, quickly giving way to tart which is joined by earthiness and some light barnyard flavors.  Cherry doesn't really shine much here but doesn't need too.

Heavy end of light body but possibly crossing over into light-medium.  Carbonation is medium while drying on the tongue.

Definitely a ballad to tartness.  Tasty and easy to drink, a pleasant representation.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with about an inch of white, big bubbled foam.  Retention is about average with the foam becoming slightly frothy as it dissipates.  Lacing

Aroma is slightly sweet, fruity, wheat, yeast, and a touch of spice from the hops.

Taste starts off sweet, then comes a blast of fruits in the middle, quite refreshing.  The finish brings out the wheat, yeast, and spice hops.

Medium body with a medium crisp and zesty carbonation.  Ever so modest stickiness.

This has been sitting in the fridge for a while as it was a beer I was trying to avoid.  Sad but true.  I didn't think I would like it and I was hoping that it might just disappear.  No such luck and, luckily, it didn't.  A solid wheat beer that is damn easy drinking and I could go for more.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 9 (22%)
Taste: 9 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 9 (28%)
Overall: 9.0

Pours opaque with a huge, mocha to brown foam.  Frothes up as it recedes nice and slow.  Some large pock marks dot the top.  Lacing is occasional.

Aroma is mostly malt.  Roasted is foremost with caramel and chocolate.  A touch of citrus comes form the hops.

Taste is roasted and burnt malt, with the burn malt in the after taste.  Chocolate is sweet while there is some coffee in there.  Bitter in the finish.

Body is light end of medium on a good day.  Carbonation is on the higher end, especially for a porter.

I have heard good things about this beer and I have wanted to try for a long time.  Now I have, maybe the build up was too much, but it isn't what I expected.  It is a solid porter but not one that seems to win awards.  I guess I know jack shit.  Enjoy!

Poured clear into my crystal brandy glass.  Foam, retention, and lacing were really not there.

Aroma is nothing short of fantastic.  Bourbon is slight but still a vital part of the aroma as well as aromas associate vanilla and oak.  Sweet malts and dark fruits round it out.

Taste is sweet malt with the bourbon coming on.  Vanilla, oak, and bourbon play nicely in the middle to the end.

Big body with not much, if any, carbonation.  Creamy in the mouth.

For the alcohol and bourbon this beer is ridiculously smooth.  Definitely a sipping beer to be enjoyed but doesn't show itself too large that you couldn't follow one up by another.

Very lemony tart and super refreshing. Well crafted, would have again.

Pours clear with a couple of inches of thick, white foam that has some nice staying power.  Lacing begins when the beer recedes leaving thick, sticky, layered foam behind.

Aroma has a touch of hops.  Me thinks this is old.  More caramel malt forward than expected.

Taste starts out mildly sweet transitioning to a buttery taste that builds into the finish.  A bitterness is strong for the beer, possibly hiding some alcohol.  Once again very little hop presence.

Medium body with the same carbonation while drying the palate.

This is definitely an old bottle, unfortunately.  Why do people that send me beer via trades insist on sending old IPAs.  Pisses me off.  In search of a fresh bottle.  Enjoy!

 A clear and dark colored copper. Foam head is soft, small bubbles, of a light beige color that didn't last long at all.

 Nice aroma of toffee and brown sugar. Pickup a little grain alcohol in the back.

 Any flavors are tough to sort out through the sharpness of the hot boozey taste.

 Bottle is from 2007, so I don't know what happened in the six years this has been in a bottle but I don't think it's fair to grant an opinion.

Pours with a chill haze with a multitude of floaties.  A thin white, tiny bubbled foam covers.  Retention matches the amount of head.  Lacing begins on the retreat and throughout, leaving wisps of light, sticky foam behind.

Aroma is fantastic.  Mango, orange and a helping of dank hops.  Bready sweentess rounds out the aroma.

Taste is very pleasing.  Hops hit early and often with the bread malt in the middle to the end.  The hops are orange up front, twisting to a mango blend with a dank bitterness in the finish.  Lingering but not palate numbingly so.

Light end of medium body with sufficient carbonation to get it there.  Dry in the finish.

I make home brew and therefore imbibe in it quite often.  Floaties and the like do not bother me but, since this is a professional beer, takes away from the overall look, becoming the only flaw in the beer.  Citra hops continues to be a stunner when used correctly in a beer.  Enjoy!

A careful pour into a pint glass yields a minimal white head.  The foam recedes quickly, leaving nary a trace behind.  Slight chill haze.

Aroma is strong with both hops and malts.  The malt is straight forward caramel, some darker notes as well.  Hops bring stone fruit and pine.  The pine is at the forefront.

Taste is big on the hops, almost consuming the malt to the finish.  Pine and grapefruit begin almost immediately, lasting through to the finish, building, before creating a lingering bitterness mixed with bread and caramel malt backbone.

A medium body, possibly on the lighter end of that spectrum.  Medium carbonation that adds to the body.  Quite bitter.

The aroma and taste are solid.  The bitterness is overdone, creating a poorly balanced beer, bringing down the ability to have more than one at a time in spite of an ABV below seven percent.  Enjoy!

Pours slightly cloudy.  A pure white, softly packed foam covers which quickly runs away and hits leaving sporadic light traces of past glory.

Aroma is lemony tartness.  There is a sweetness that keeps getting beaten back by tart.  Brett, floral hops and lemon grass mingle in between.

Taste is a bit of a let down.  Never really builds to a medium level of excitement to the mouth.  Lemon, tartness, Brett and a touch of sweetness coexist.

Medium body with mild carbonation.  Dry.  No bitterness in the finish but a sweet-tart.

The flavors never developed.  The aroma is nice but for a beer labeled with Hop and Amarillo, I feel that is lacking as well.  Not a bad beer just not a great beer that I am used to having from Crooked Stave.  Enjoy!

From a May 2015 bottle into a Crooked Stave snifter.

Pours slightly cloudy. A pure white, softly packed foam covers.  Froths as it recedes, slowly, becoming quite thick.  Lacing throughout.  Thickly layered in thin strips around the glass.

Aroma is citra from the initial crack of the bottle crown.  Afterwards the scents retreat to a place similar to the amarillo version.  Lemon, tart, Brett, and light touch of sweetness.  Brett takes the center as it warms.

Taste offers up sweetness and Brett.   The Brett character is earth and spice.  Lemon and passion fruit smolder in the background.  The finish balances well between sweet and bitter to create a smooth end.

Medium body with solid carbonation. Dry. No bitterness in the finish but a sweet-tart.

The beer seems better than the amarillo, which was more lemon and funk, not much Amarillo.  Therefore this version brings a nice balance between Brett funk, hop and sweet.  Complex, yet the balance and dryness create an easy to drink beverage.  Enjoy!

On the bottle: "Bottled Oct 2009 Batch Nine"

Pours just slightly cloudy.  Huge amount of dry, wispy, thick, white foam.  Retention is average while lacing is thick, sticky, and dry.

Aroma is light but contains sweet caramel malt.  Belgian yeast lends a bit of spice but that is about it.

Taste is a bit of the same, carrying light notes of caramel sweetness with a blend of peppery spice.

Light body but at the bigger end of it.  A good carbonated wallop smacks the lips and tongue.

This is a nice beer but I think on the light end of a solid Saison.  It just isn't interesting enough as there are no traces of the barn that it was brewed in.  Enjoy!

 A deep brown, with deep khaki small bubble foam.

 Floral and light grapefruit. Faintly in the background a soft chocolate malt.

 Citrusy blend of grapefruit and orange.  I get some pine and dark malt in the background. Low to medium weight. Well carbonated.

 Hard to figure the style. But, don't let that slow you down. Great blend of citrus and light chocolate malt.

Short Rating
Arom 10 (22%)
Taste: 7 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 7 (28%)
Overall: 7.9

Bottled on 2015-04-15.

Pours with a light chill haze but otherwise clear.  Frothy, one-inch of white foam coats the top.  Retention is quite good.  Minimal lacing.

Aroma is a blend of malt, hop and juice.  The malt is clean, sweet and bread crust.  Hops are floral, slight spice.  Bread is the strongest of the scents, especially as it warms.

Taste is full of bread, bread crust, and even biscuit.  Floral hops come through from the middle to the finish.  Bread and floral hops linger.  Surprisingly no bitterness.

Light body.  Crisp.  Light body, maybe higher end, even reaching medium, but lighter.  Not bitter.  Dries the palate.

If the bottle didn't say there was grapefruit (I assume juice) in the beer, I wouldn't know it.  Heck, I didn't detect it.  Too much bread in this beer and not enough hops to make me overly happy.  The malt, as it warms, it quite sweet, not caramel but clean sweetness.  I would have it again, cautiously.  Enjoy!

Pours crystal clear with large effervescence.  Foam is white but thin, almost wispy.  Retention and lacing are after thoughts as no foam remains a minute after pour.

Aroma is malt forward.  Bread, toast and caramel carry the beer.  The toast is most boastful, creating a very pleasant scent.  Fruity under tones.

Carbonation fills the mouth up front, tickling the roof the mouth.  From there it is all malt.  There is a herbal hop presence at the end but more to tease the taste buds into a submissive balance.  Bread and toast, leaning on the toast, is at the forefront.

Light end of medium body; possibly even lighter.  Carbonation adds to the mouth feel as it comes and goes but pushes across strong.  Dries the palate some.

Definitely a malt forward beer: it is a German style.  Easy to drink and quite refreshing.  Not a beer style I would normally pickup but this changes my mind.  A great way to change up the usual hop barrage I am used to.  Enjoy!

 Hazy orange gold, delicate white foam of medium retention.

 Thick malty sugariness. The comes the orange citrus with a touch of spiciness from the hops. The malt makes it a tad thick appearing, but enough fruitiness makes it more inviting.

 First is the malt sweetness in the nose is held in check in the taste. The first impression on taste notes is very soft butterscotch mixed with slightly sour tangerine. Then some biscuity notes followed by a light touch of alcohol. Medium in both mouthfeel and carbonation. The fade away taste sensation is a spicy bitter.

 The bad news is it's not what I expected in a winter warmer. the good news is that I am not a fan of most winter warmers. This could better be sold as a malted up IPA. I like it and in the end found it interesting. Bonus points for no added spice, just what's natural in the hops. Pretty good little brew.

From a 2011 bottle, number 317 of 336.

Pours opaque with a quarter inch of mocha foam.  Retention is fleeting.  No lacing at all.

Aroma has brown sugar, bourbon, and vanilla.  Obviously the barrel comes through nicely.  Underlying beer is mute.

Taste is the same as the aroma.  Bourbon barrel, vanilla, and brown sugar keep this beer alive.  A bit sweet in the finish.

Medium body with light carbonation.

A nice beer but there isn't much base beer to be found.  "Smaller" than expected.  Enjoy!

Pours surprisingly, perfectly opaque: no light gets through. Nice tan foam with average retention.  Lacing is sticky, widely distributed but thin in thickness.

Aroma brings pine with the initial pour.  The nose doesn't even have to be near the glass to pull pine out.  Roast and caramel malt.  The roast carries some weight.

Taste brings on the roast malt.  Not overpowering but definitely the driving force.  Caramel but not sweet.  Roast lingers into the end and finish, joined by pine.  Slight bitterness that is created more by the malt than the hops.

Medium body with more than ample carbonation.  Crisp finish that dries the palate.

More of a hopped up stout.  Big roast is on the fringe of too much.  Hop profile is a bit narrow but still solid.  A good beer, especially for my first form West Virginia.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 8 (22%)
Taste: 7 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 7 (28%)
Overall: 7.4

Short Rating
Arom 8 (22%)
Taste: 8 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 7 (28%)
Overall: 7.8

My second beer from BuckleDown in as many days in a conscience attempt to have more local Chicago beers.  Build your own six-pack is coming in handy.

Pours with a chill covered by an inch of off-white foam.  Retention is solid.  Lacing is sticky throughout.

Aroma is full of citrus, orange and pine hops.  Caramel, grain and light bread.  Orange is the strongest of the hop aromas.

Taste has a good backbone of malt.  Caramel and bread coexist throughout.  Good malt and hop balance.  Orange and pine hops are pleasant.  Minimal bitterness, almost complete balance.

Light end of medium body, same for the carbonation.  Crisp.  Dries the  palate.  Late sweetness with minimal to no bitterness.

This is a solid beer.  Great balance.  Easy to drink.  The bread flavor, achieved from the grain, is a nice change of pace for the style.  Definitely a new local that I will be picking up more often.  Enjoy!

Short Rating
Arom 7 (22%)
Taste: 6 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 7 (28%)
Overall: 6.8

Short Rating
Arom 7 (22%)
Taste: 7 (40%)
Look: 10 (10%)
Drinkability: 7 (28%)
Overall: 7.3

Short Rating
Arom 8 (22%)
Taste: 7 (40%)
Look: 9 (10%)
Drinkability: 7 (28%)
Overall: 7.4

Poured clear with a touch over an inch of white foam.  Retention was about average or better with nothing fancy happening during the process.  Lacing is sheeting but slips back as you tip.

Aroma is malt forward as should be expected from the style.  Bread and slightly sweet malts meet the sense.

Taste is more of the same.  Sweet caramel and toffee malts meet a bread and slight fruity flavor in the finish.  Delicate.

Light body with heavy end of light carbonation which has a touch of bite in the middle.

I have to admit I haven't had many of this style.  I like the ease of drinkability as there is nothing inhibiting you from having several, especially when it is warm out.  I guess there is only so much you can get out of the nose and taste with this style but I have to have more in the style to make a better assumption.  This review might be revised in the future.  Enjoy!

 Clear gold, with soft off-white foam of normal retention.

 Average levels of orange,pine, and malt. Inviting but in an unassuming way.

 Super well balanced is my first thought. Starts orangey-grapefruit, switches to malt, then quickly dry's out, and carbonation follows, all in a seamless melt that totally works together. The 7.5% abv is well hidden. Any after-taste is more citrusy than anything else.

 If this is the basis for Double Jack, now I know why that's so good. This brew was a total surprise, I thought it was going to be OK but kind of boring. And even though it's a strong personality IPA, it's very drinkable. I'd rank this with the very best of American IPAs.

Pours with a slight chill haze while minimal white foam covers the drink.  Retention is weak like the foam to begin with.  Lacing is all over but like little dots of residue.

Aroma is toffee malt, possibly a deep caramel, but isn't that toffee.  Floral hops are there but only as a side note.  A touch of rye is noticeable.

Taste is lack luster at best.  Toffee, caramel and rye lead a malt attack that doesn't give up the hop until bitterness comes through in the finish.

Light end of medium body.  Carbonation is about the same.  Dries the palate.

Is this beer old as there isn't much hop forwardness.  The toffee profile is one that shouldn't be in an IPA - my rules when I am drinking.  Enjoy!

Pours clear with an inch or more of off-white, meringue foam. Lather increases as it slowly recedes.  Not much in the lacing department.

Aroma is wrong right off the start.  This is an old beer.  Resinous hops lead to an almost vegetal quality to the scent.

Taste is more of the same.  There are sweet, caramel malts that try to hide the old hop profile.  A bit of bitter bite in the finish but not overly done.

Light end of medium mouth with about the same carbonation.

The hop profile is what this beer is all about.  Obviously I have a bottle out of its prime by a long shot.  I might have to meander up to the brewery this summer and have a fresh one on tap.  This also brings to mind bottle dating.  Obviously my rating will reflect the old beer but I will try to be kind.  Enjoy!

I have been looking forward to trying this beer and tonight seems like the perfect night.  I took a few days off from work, so I am starting a long weekend.  This is my celebration beer!

Pours a dark black color with a very thin milky dark tan head.  The head on this beer is mostly seen around the edges of the glass with just a thin swirl of tan foam floating in the middle.  Lacing is good and seems heavy with almost an oiliness to it.

Aroma is over the top amazing. So much going on here, but in a really good way.  I am getting chocolate, molasses, bourbon, and oak with a bit of alcohol mixed in.

Taste is unreal.  Everything I was hoping this would be!  It melts in your mouth.  This beer is so smooth it is like drinking silk.  I am getting so many different flavors it is hard to know where to start.  Chocolate, molasses, coffee and all strong upfront.  On the backend I am getting a nice oak, bourbon, and even a hint of vanilla.

Mouthfeel is like nothing I have ever experienced in a beer.  Silky smooth, heavy and creamy, but very drinkable.

Overall I am going to step out on a limb and say that this may be the best beer I have ever had.  I am really impressed with the mouthfeel as well as the aroma and flavor.  Everything about this beer works together in perfect harmony. I am glad I finally tried it!

Pours opaque with several inches of light brown, frothy foam into my no name pint glass.  Retention is almost creamy and long lasting.

Aroma is malt light but dark chocolate with a big blast of nuts.  A little bit of roasted malt rounds it out.  That's about it.

Taste is nut and roasted malts, leaning more on the nutty end.  Roasted and dark chocolate bitterness come through in the end with the chocolate bitterness staying around a bit as well as the roasted, burnt flavor here and there.

A bit thinner than expected but average in carbonation.  Dry.

Nothing over the edge but definitely a fine drinking porter.  Solid on each level, showing through with the fact that I want more.  Lake Louie quietly keeps knocking 'em out of the park.  Enjoy!

For my 100th review I am pulling out one of my old favorites that I have never rated.

Pours a deep black with a quarter inch dark tan head.  Very little retention on the head as it disappears quickly leaving a thin milky layer of tan foam floating on top.  Spotty lacing.

Aroma is pretty much coffee with a hint of chocolate.  Sweet and bitter all at the same time.

Taste is big dark coffee with a hint of chocolate showing up on the backend.  Bitter on the palate, but very inviting.

Big body with medium carbonation.  Milky smooth on the palate.

Overall, this is a very enjoyable beer.  I am a big fan of this style and this is one of my favorite coffee stouts!  Try one...

Pours clear with 2 - 3 inches of frothy, white foam to cover the liquid.  Retention is quite good, leaving behind some sticky, web-like lacing.

Aroma is more malt forward than I expecte toffee and bread.  There is a real slight citrus hop profile, but almost not enough to mention.

Taste is sweet up front, but not lasting, with a huge blast of hop bitterness.  No real hop flavor (herbal/grassy), just bitterness.  That lasts, and lasts, and lasts.  Not my favorite combination of for hop profile in an American IPA.

Light mouth feel with mild carbonation.

I can't get over how bitter this beer is in the finish.  Yeah, IPAs need bite but not completely thrown out there and unbalanced bitterness, which, in this case, just lasts.  I think this beer needs a touch of work for balance and some dry hopping would help both the aroma and taste.  Enjoy!

Pours a Ruby Brown with a huge foamy head.  Head lingers and leaves a heavy lacing on the glass.

Aroma is a Carmel malt sweetness, with a hint of pine hop.

Taste is malty sweet with a mild bitter hop on the back end.  I also get a brown nut taste in this  beer.  I kind of a strange after taste, might be a floral type taste.

Overall this beer is pretty average, not bad, not really great either

Pours clear with several inches of white foam that is thick.  Retention is well above average with lacing being sticky, dry, and like a spider web.

Aroma has big caramel malts and a touch of bread.  Floral, fresh, and citrus bring the hops in and round out the beer.

Taste is bland to start with caramel malts building up quickly.  Hops come on strong with floral and big citrus.  Bitterness it strong for the style.

Body is light end of medium or big end of light.  Carbonation is light.

Third beer on the evening from Clown Shoes, making me teeter on the brink.  This beer and Hoppy Feet are about the same: nice beers just nothing exciting.  Enjoy!

Pours a cloudy pale golden yellow color with a half inch creamy white head.  The head dissipates after a few minutes leaving a thin spotty layer of foam resting on top.  This beer has a large amount of yeast sediment that settles to the bottom of the glass. Spotty watery lacing.

The aroma is a blend of yeast, wheat, and a nice citrus lemon zest.

The taste is smooth and creamy with a yeast and wheat base surrounded by a citrus lemon and orange flavor with a nice light spice showing up in the finish. Very drinkable and refreshing.

The lighter side of medium on the body with a lighter carbonation.  Creamy and smooth mouthfeel with a soft slightly dry finish.

Overall, another impressive beer from Bells.  This is the perfect summer beer with a very drinkable nature and smooth well balanced flavors.  If you have never had this beer make a point of picking up a sixer for your next summer BBQ.  You won't be disappointed!

Pours a clear pale golden color with a fluffy white one inch head.  Good retention on the head with lots of thick sticky lacing.

The aroma is zesty with lemon and clove and a funky farm house yeast.

The taste is crisp and clean with light sweetness.  Flavors similar to the aroma with lemon and clove and a bready farm house funky yeast and spices.  A hint of banana is noticeable as well. Some bitterness in the finish.

Light body with medium to high carbonation.  Dry on the palate.

Overall, a solid saison ale from New Holland.  I am enjoying the crisp clean flavors the are well balanced and fairly bold.  A great hot summer day beer! Try one!

Pours clear with two inches of white, tight foam.  Retention is above average with the foam leaving behind spider web like, sticky lacing.

Aroma is subdued hop floral, citrus, and pine.  Pleasant without one really taking the spotlight.  I could have used a bit more on the nose unless the beer was a bit old. (?)

Taste has caramel and bread malt sitting behind a similar sheet of hops.  Some bitterness in the middle through to the end with a bit of it lingering.

Light body with a prickly carbonation.

Only my second beer from Sand Creek, but I am definitely impressed.  A quality IPA from the midwest that would be easy drinking anytime of the year.  Enjoy!

I don't know what happened to my review that I wrote.  I think the wife was ready to leave and I shut down the browser before submitting, crap!

Pours opaque with a tan, thin foam that doesn't hang around for long.

Aroma is dark roasted malt with molasses, brown sugar, dark fruits.  Alcohol, chocolate, coffee, and the kitchen sink all play a tune on senses.  There is a level of sweetness from the sugars that give it a "thickness" of scent.

Taste has a lot of sweetness throughout without being cloying as other flavors come in and do their part to balance and distract.  Dark fruits, chocolate, and coffee seem to lend themselves assertively at points with the chocolate bitterness going into the end.  There seems to be a touch of tart cherries near the finish too.  Interesting.

Body is big and thick with minimal to no carbonation that will become less with age.  Creamy and filling.

A really big beer that is solid but almost too sweet.  I think the sweetness takes this years (2010) down a notch.  I imagine it will only get more so going forward?  But, I would drink this anytime as I relish the big stouts.  Maybe not the best RIS but darn tasty nonetheless.  Enjoy!

 Bright orange gold with huge chunks. Foam is like meringue pie top, crazy thick top that coats the side of the glass with lacing. Carefull with that bottle Eugene

 Like walking through a Northern Michigan pine forrest that for some strange reason has a bunch of orange trees. One of those beers that I could stop at smelling and be OK (sort of).

 OK, amatuers may incorrectly try quickly label this bitter, hop oil. It takes some time to peel back the layers, of pure citrus (first grapefruit, then orange, followed by lemon and pineapple). Some rich caramel peeks through, but hops push down the sweetnes as soon as it lifts up. I think carbonation is medium high, but too many other sensations to consider.

 I love Port Brewing and Mongo is just another reason. Yes, it's close to being over the top. But, if you love huge IPA, esp WC style I bet you'll love this stuff. It's so pure in great hops that explode with a rainbow of tropical fruit, all other DIPA must be benchmarked against this brew. Make no mistake, this is a brew for big boys (and girls) that can take the big surf. Or at least in my prairie, snow plagued geosphere, gives me a mind's eye ride on a wave. Oh and I bought the bomber in Chicago for $6.50, what an f-ing deal. Great shit, get it!

 Truly golden color, with a some haze, and topped with a soft white head.

 Lot's of variety in the nose. First an attractive spice and its mixed with a big hit of full orange fruit.  Beyond that let your imagination run wild. I'm getting some sugars, a little banana, and caramel malts.

 Bold blast of sweet fruits and malt. It's refreshing and fizzy, but a bit of hop bite at the end.

 Well made brew. The yeast profile is interesting, is slightly reminicant of a hefenweizen. There's no way I'd guess the abv at 9.9. If you like this style, you'll like this brew.

Poured clear with a couple inches of white, small bubbled, thick foam.  Retention is above average, creating a meringue foam.  Lacing is spider-web and sticky.

Aroma is light, if any hops.  I was expecting more.  Malt is sweet and caramel while there is a spice/earth scent.

Taste is sweet, caramel with some hops coming on in the middle.  Spice, earth, and a touch of citrus.  Bitterness is slight with a bit of dough malt.  Neither lasts but are present.

A medium body with light carbonation.

This is a very drinkable beer in spite of the alcohol level which in no way shows up in the taste.  I guess I have gotten used to American IPAs that are more hop forward, this is subdued but in a good way.  Enjoy!

Vintage 2011
Cellared for 6 months

Pours a slightly hazy dark amber brown with a thin khaki colored head.  Head dissipates quickly leaving just a thin ring of foam around the edges of the glass.  Very little lacing.

The aroma is a blend of sweet malts, dark fruit (maybe raisins or prunes), caramel, and brown sugar. A very rich pleasing aroma.

Taste is sweet from start to finish.  A sweet caramel malt, bread and brown sugar work into a dark fruit flavor with a mild oak. The finish has a slight spice with a good amount of warmth from the higher abv.

Big body with medium carbonation.  A sticky sweet mouth feel.

Overall an impressive beer!  Well balanced in all aspects including the warmth from the alcohol as it works very nicely with the sweet bold flavors.  A great sipping beer that seems to cellar well and would make a great winter beer on a cold night!  Try one!

Pours clear held up to a bright light.  Half of a glass of light tan, frothy foam has average or so retention, surprisingly leaving very little evidence of it's existence.

Aroma doesn't have any vanilla as was expected.  Roasted malt is muted and about all to be had.

Taste has roast, coffee, and maybe a touch of smoke but there isn't much of any of them.  Once again no vanilla.  Lingering sweetness fights the dryness.

Light body as it came across thin but a strong carbonation seems forced to give try and give it more.

My first official beer from Nebraska.  It is okay.  Nothing great and nothing really wrong.  I would call this a porter ligh just not enough to get me going.  Definitely easy to drink but too mild.  Enjoy!

Nice Deep Amber Gold.

Aroma is very appealing, I thought grapefruit, my fellow tasters correct said pine and spice.

Drinkable, tasty, and definately unique.

2010 bottle.

Pours clear with an eighth inch or so off deep tan foam.  Retention is fleeting leaving no traces of it's short lived existence.    Surprisingly effervescent.

Aroma is rich molasses, sweet brown sugar, dark fruits, ideas of syrup.  Alcohol and cherries are mildly represented.  Definitely sweet.

Taste is really sweet.  Dark fruits, molasses, and brown sugar dominate the flavors.  Dark fruits are mainly pointed at raisins and prunes.

Big body that is thick, almost syrupy, with light end of medium carbonation.  Dries the palate.

This isn't going to go down fast.  The alcohol burns from the back of the throat all the way down to the end.  You could time it with a stop watch.  A sipper that is sweet (maybe too much) that should be an occasional friend.  Enjoy!

Aroma-  Great!  A mix of great hops.  Floral and resining.  The hops are listed on the bottle and I notice the cascade and mix of amarillo and simcoe.  The last hops being warrior and centennial.  The centennial I don't notice as much and the warrior is for bittering, but these are great hops and bringing them together is a winning combination.

Look- Great golden color-  tight bubbles- 'effervescent'.

Taste-  Huh.  Rye is there, but not as prominent as I imagined.  Slightest spicyness to the malt bill.  Malt bill is... not prominent at all.  Not what I imagined a rye-ish beer would be like.  Not what I thought an APA would be like.  It's sort of so.... middle of the road- it doesn't commit to anyone thing.  It's fine- drinkable- good.  Maybe forgettable?

I do like the aroma despite what others said!  ;)

I would drink this beer again, but it would be like... "Oh yeah- it's fine."

Surprisingly has a chill haze with a two inch white foam that is tightly packed with medium sized bubbles while the top is thick.  Retention has nice staying power, leaving a few sticky track behind.  Effervescent at first but gets used up in short time.

Aroma is spice, herbal, and earthy hops trying to cover the large sweetness from caramel and bread malt scents.  There is a slight fruitiness that tends toward the dark side, maybe raisins.

Taste is sweetness from toffee, caramel, and bread malts.  Raisins are a definite in the flavor adding a nice push against the other malt flavors, while getting more help from spice and herbal hop peppiness that carries into the finish.

Light end of medium body with a fairly stiff carbonation that lends itself.  The finish does dry the palate.

A nice delicate balance to this beer.  Probably a bit malt forward for some but not even close to cloying.  Refreshing and easy to drink.  Good anytime of the year and when you want a break from west coast style beers.  Enjoy!

Pours a hazy deep golden orange with a half inch orange-white head that settles quickly into a thin swirl of foam on top of the beer. No lacing.

The aroma is a mix of tangerines and oranges with some slight grain.  The tangerine and orange aroma is bold, fresh and very pleasant.

The taste is a huge tart tangerine and orange flavor up front and works into a wheat flavor with a citrus bitterness in the aftertaste.

Light body with a high level of carbonation.  The bold citrus mixed with the high level of carbonation creates a soda like mouthfeel.

Overall, this is a fun fruit beer that has bold flavors that are enjoyable and different.  Very refreshing! I think that I would enjoy this beer on a hot summer day for breakfast!  Worth a try since the flavors are great, but it reminds me too much of a soda.  Give one and try and decide for yourself!

Pours a medium amber brown color with a thin off-white head that quickly dissipates leaving a thin layer of foam resting on top. A fair amount of lacing.

The aroma is light sweet malt aroma with a bit of floral hops.

The taste starts with light sweet caramel malt, some dry bready malt flavors and moves to a dry floral hop on the finish. The aftertaste has hints of citrus and honey wrapped around a slightly bitter hop.

Light to medium bodied with medium somewhat fizzy carbonation.  Watery mouthfeel.  Slightly dry on the finish.

Overall an enjoyable beer. Not super complex, but a satisfying amber ale that is well balanced and has that little some thing extra that you don't find in a lot of the main stream beers of this style!  Try one!

Pours a thick deep brown color with a half inch tan head.  Thick even lacing on the edges of the glass.

Aroma is strong and complex.  I am getting some sweet molasses, roasted malts, dark fruits, and chocolate with a hint of smoke.


Taste is a punch of complex flavors.  I am getting a smooth sweet vanilla upfront that works into a sweet molasses with a bit of chocolate and dark fruits.  The warmth of the alcohol really hits you at the end.

Mouth feel is milky and smooth, full bodied with medium carbonation.

I am really enjoying this beer, but is a bit too rich for me.  It has a lot of layers of complexity and is very interesting, but it may be a little bit too much for my liking, but it is still a really tasty interesting beer.  Between the high abv and the richness, I would really only want one of these and call it a night.

Wish I had some clown shoes on me feet for this beer!

Pours a deep brown with a huge foamy head.  Great retention with lots of heavy foamy lacing.

Aroma is clean fresh floral and pine mixed with chocolate malt.

This is a interesting beer.  Not very much taste on front end of this beer.  It is very light and watery.  The backend gives me strong bitter pine, citrus hop with a buttery malt  at the very end.

Overall it is not my favorite; it is not a bad beer, more of a strange beer.  I do enjoy the hops and the bitterness, but I find it strange on the palate since it is so light upfront and buttery on backend.

Pours clear with an enormous, white foam.  Retention is quick to start, slowing and frothy.  Lacing is spotty here and there at best and wispy.

Aroma is full of orange pleasant and fresh.  Subtle sweetness with a bunch of wheat.  A touch of spice that could be from coriander.

Taste is similar to the taste.  Yeast and wheat abound with a touch of clove and orange.  The finish has a touch of earth and spice bitterness.

Light body with a ton of carbonation.  Too much?

Pleasantly surprised by this beer.  Solid balance with a good mixture of flavors and aromas.  Don't know if I am completely sold on the earthy finish but it will do.  Enjoy!

Pours black with a hint of ruby red around the edges of the glass.  The pour produces a half inch fluffy tan head with great retention as the head gets thicker as it begins to settle. Lots of sticky web like lacing.

The aroma is fairly light, but I detect hints of coffee and roasted malts.

The taste is much bigger and bolder than the aroma. Sweet toffee upfront works into roasted malts with a touch of chocolate and coffee  flavors that appear near the finish and linger in the aftertaste.

Medium body with medium carbonation and a sticky sweetness on the lips.

Overall, a very nice porter from Kona Brewing.  Very easy drinking and nicely balanced.  Now I just need to find a way to get to Hawaii to try this one on Tap at the brewery!  Try One!

 Clear and deep mahagony brown, solid medium tan foam of average retenion with minimal lacing.

Initialy pick up sherry and roasty malt and followed by alcohol fire.

 Whoa, totally unexpected, it's not Imperial Stout and man is there carbonation. Did I miss read the label? Flavors are a pleasant blend roasty malt, dark chocolate, and maybe a touch of coffee. Sweeetness at a perfect level. On the low medium side for mouthfeel. At the end I'm kind of left with a slight bitter taste.

 This is a very drinkable stout, but could only be considered Imperial because of the abv. I am totally thrown off by the high scores on reviews. Yes, there's a very good blend or rich dark flavors. But I can't say this beer in the upper echelon of brews in this country. Not just because it's way off the style, but it's just not perfect. I think there's a touch of favoritism on the part of the locals, when it came time to rate this one. Don't get me wrong, I'd drink this again if offered, but I just see it as a top tier brew.


Bottle stampe Best by 4/26/11

 A hazy, straight forward pale gold. Fizzy little bubbles, of low retention, white in color.

 The aroma notes are subtle, first is lemony citrus, other fruits, and floral. Then a pick up a peppery spice. Even though low levels, the scents help build my interest in this brew.

 A very dry sweetness, then a burst of herbal flavors. Picked up, what I thought to be peppery ainse spiciness. I like the big carbonation.

 It's well made and very balanced.  In a subtle way there's lot's of different scents and flavors coming from all over the place. Probably better aligned with summer weather. In the end my interest was piqued by this beer.

I'm  beer behind, I'll make this quick.

Hazy gold, nice even head, great lace.
Grape is clear, clean, almost crisp.  Nice, but sort of middle of the road.  Good by all means, but not exceptional.
